---
title: 16.Error (-10001)-(-15000)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:52:11.330Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:52:08.799Z
---

-11000	Success.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 00000. The
following functions can return this error code: all GBase CLI functions.

The function completed successfully.


-11001	General warning.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01000. The
following functions can return this error code: all GBase CLI functions
except SQLAllocEnv() and SQLError().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. For more
information, call SQLError().


-11001	General warning.

This CLI warning can be returned with any CLI function except
SQLAllocEnv and SQLError when a nonspecific warning occurs. Additional
text is appended to describe the specified warning in more detail. For
detailed information associated with the appended text, check the
GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11002	Disconnect error.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01002. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDisconnect().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. For more
information, call SQLError().


-11003	Data truncated.

This CLI message is issued when the data that a CLI function returns
exceeds the defined buffer size. Increase the size of the allocated
buffer.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01004. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLColAttributes(), SQLDataSources(), SQLDescribeCol(), SQLDriverConnect(),
SQLDrivers(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(),
SQLGetCursorName(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetInfo(), SQLNativeSql(), and
SQLPutData().

For SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), or SQLPutData(), one of the following
problems occurred for the SQL statement, the prepared statement, or the data
sent: (1) The statement or data contained a binary or character parameter
or literal that exceeded the maximum length of the associated column, or
(2) The function truncated the fractional part of a numeric parameter or
literal in the statement or data, or (3) The function truncated part of a
date or time parameter or literal in the statement or data. Change the data
or the parameters and literals in the statement so that they do not exceed
the maximum length of the associated column, and set the data types for the
parameters and literals so that they can accommodate the data.

For SQLExtendedFetch() or SQLFetch(), the function returned
SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function completed successfully,
and that a nonfatal error occurred. To handle the nonfatal error, the function
truncated the data that was returned for one or more columns. If the value was
a string, the function right-truncated it. If the value was numeric, the
function truncated the fractional part of the number. Set the data types for
the return data so that they can accommodate the data. For more information,
call SQLError().

For SQLGetData(), the function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means
that the function completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred.
The nonfatal error occurred because the function could not retrieve all the
data for the specified column in one call. The pcbValue argument contains
the length of the data that was left in the column before the current call
to SQLGetData(). Call SQLGetData() repeatedly until all data is retrieved.

For all other functions that can return this error code, the function returned
SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function completed successfully,
and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal error occurred because the
return buffer was not large enough to return all the requested information.
The function truncated the return data and set the total number of bytes
returned to the length of the untruncated return data. Reallocate the return
buffer so that it can accommodate the return data. For more information, call
SQLError().



-11004	Privilege not revoked.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01006. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLExecute().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal error
occurred because the SQL statement or prepared statement contained a REVOKE
statement, and the user does not have the access privilege to make this
change. For more information, call SQLError().


-11005	Invalid connection string attribute.

Specified connection string attribute is unsupported for
SQLBrowseConnect and SQLDriverConnect. Check the list of valid
attributes.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S00. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect() and
SQLDriverConnect().

For SQLBrowseConnect(), the function returned SQL_NEED_DATA, which means that
either the connection string contains an invalid attribute keyword, or the
connection string contains an attribute keyword that does not apply to the
current connection level. Set each attribute keyword in the connection string
to a valid value that applies to the current connection level.

For SQLDriverConnect(), the function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which
means that the function completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error
occurred. The nonfatal error occurred because the connection string contains
an invalid attribute keyword, but GBase CLI connected to the data source
anyway. For more information, call SQLError().


-11006	Error in row.

An error occurred while fetching one or more rows with
SQLExtendedFetch. Check the rgfRowStatus array.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S01. The
following function can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal
error occurred while the function was fetching one or more rows. For more
information, call SQLError().



-11007	Option value changed.

The driver did not support the specified value of the VParam argument
with the SQLSetConnectOption or SQLSetStatementOption. The driver
substitutes a similar value and returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO. To
determine the new value of VParam, use SQLGetConnectionOption or
SQLGetStatement.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S02. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLSetConnectOption() and
SQLSetStmtOption().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal
error occurred because GBase CLI does not support the vParam value for
the option. The function substituted a similar value. For more information,
call SQLError().



-11008	No rows updated or deleted.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S03. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLExecute().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal
error occurred because the SQL statement or prepared statement contained a
positioned UPDATE or DELETE statement, but the function did not update or
delete any rows. For more information, call SQLError().


-11009	More than one row updated or deleted.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S04. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLExecute().

The function returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO, which means that the function
completed successfully, and that a nonfatal error occurred. The nonfatal
error occurred because the SQL statement or prepared statement contained a
positioned UPDATE or DELETE statement, and the function updated or deleted
more than one row. For more information, call SQLError().


-11010	Cancel treated as FreeStmt/Close.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S05. The
following function can return this error code: SQLCancel().

This message is issued whenever SQLCancel is used with an open
statement handle. This warning is not returned when using the driver
manager. Instead of using SQLCancel, close the statement handle with
the SQLFree statement.



-11011	Attempt to fetch before the result returned the first rowset.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S06. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch and
SQLFetchScroll.

For SQLExtendedFetch(), the requested rowset overlapped the start of the
result set when the current position was beyond the first row, and either
FetchOrientation was SQL_PRIOR or FetchOrientation was SQL_RELATIVE with
a negative FetchOffset whose absolute value was less than or equal to the
current SQL_ROWSET_SIZE. (Function returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)

For SQLFetchScroll, the requested rowset overlapped the start of the
result set when FetchOrientation was SQL_FETCH_PRIOR, the current
position was beyond the first row, and the number of the current row is
less than or equal to the rowset size.

The requested rowset overlapped the start of the result set when
FetchOrientation was SQL_FETCH_PRIOR, the current position was beyond the
end of the result set, and the rowset size was greater than the result
set size.

The requested rowset overlapped the start of the result set when
FetchOrientation was SQL_FETCH_RELATIVE, FetchOffset was negative, and
the absolute value of FetchOffset was less than or equal to the rowset
size.

The requested rowset overlapped the start of the result set when
FetchOrientation was SQL_FETCH_ABSOLUTE, FetchOffset was negative, and
the absolute value of FetchOffset was greater than the result set size
but less than or equal to the rowset size. (Function returns
SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)


-11012	Wrong number of parameters.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 07001. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLExecute().

The number of parameters that you used SQLBindParameter() to bind is less
than the number of parameters in the SQL statement or prepared statement.
Bind the same number of parameters as the number of parameters in the
statement.



-11013	Restricted data type attribute violation.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 07006. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindParameter(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData().

A data value could not be converted to the C data type specified by the
fCType argument of the SQLBindCol function. This error occurs when you
try to retrieve data types that are unsupported by the CLI driver or
the value in the fCType argument is not recognized. Confirm that the
data type you are requesting is supported by the database server and
confirm that the value you are supplying for the fCType argument is
valid.

For SQLBindParameter(), it is not possible to convert the result data (the
data value associated with the GBase CLI C data type (fCType) argument)
to the data type of the parameter (the data value associated with the
GBase CLI SQL data type (fSqlType) argument). Set the GBase CLI C and
SQL data types to values that make it possible to convert the result data
to the data type of the parameter.

For SQLExtendedFetch() or SQLFetch(), it is not possible to convert one of the
result data values to the specified data type (the GBase CLI C data type
(fCType) argument for SQLBindCol()). For each data value that the function
fetches, set the associated GBase CLI C data type argument for SQLBindCol()
to a value that makes it possible to convert the data value to the specified
data type.

For SQLGetData(), it is not possible to convert the data value to the
specified data type (the GBase CLI C data type (fCType) argument). Set
GBase CLI C data type to a value that makes it possible to convert the
data value to the data type.



-11014	Invalid use of default parameter.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 07S01. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
and SQLPutData().

You used SQL_DEFAULT_PARAM and the corresponding parameter does not have a
default value. Use SQL_DEFAULT_PARAM only if the corresponding parameter has
a default value.


-11015	Unable to connect to data source.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 08001. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect().

The driver cannot establish a connection with the data source. Check
that the database server name, user ID, and password are correctly
specified and that the database server is available.



-11016	Connection in use.

The specified connection with a data source is in conflict with another
user's exclusive use of the database. Establish a connection when the
data source is available.


-11017	Connection not open.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 08003. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLAllocStmt(),
SQLDisconnect(), SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetInfo(), SQLNativeSql(),
SQLSetConnectOption(), and SQLTransact().

The connection that the hdbc argument specifies is not open. Validate
that the SQLConnect, SQLDriverConnect, or SQLBrowseConnect calls
succeeded.


-11018	Data source rejected establishment of connection.

The data source rejected the establishment of the connection for
implementation-defined reasons. Confirm that the password and user ID
are correct.


-11020	Communication link failure.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 08S01. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLColumnPrivileges(), SQLColumns(), SQLConnect(), SQLDriverConnect(),
SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(),
SQLForeignKeys(), SQLFreeConnect(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetTypeInfo(),
SQLParamData(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(), SQLProcedureColumns(),
SQLProcedures(), SQLPutData(), SQLSetConnectOption(), SQLSetStmtOption(),
SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), and SQLTables().

The communication link between GBase CLI and the data source failed before
the function completed successfully. If this error occurs consistently,
contact GBase Technical Support.



-11021	Insert value list does not match column list.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 21S01. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained an INSERT statement, but the number of values
to insert was not the same as the number of columns into which to insert
values. Change the INSERT statement so that the number of values to insert
is the same as the number of columns into which to insert values.


-11022	Degree of derived table does not match column list.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 21S02. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained a CREATE VIEW statement, but the number of column
names for the view was not the same as the number of columns that the SELECT
statement returns. Change the CREATE VIEW statement so that the number of
column names is the same as the number of columns.


-11023	String data right truncation.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22001. The
following function can return this error code: SQLPutData().

Before you called SQLPutData(), SQLGetInfo() returned "Y" when you called it
with an information type of SQL_NEED_LONG_DATA_LEN. You then sent more data
than the amount that the pcbValue argument specified in SQLBindParameter().
Send only the amount of data that pcbValue specifies.


-11024	Indicator variable required but not supplied.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22002. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch(),
SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData().

For SQLExtendedFetch() or SQLFetch(), the value for a bound column was null
but the INDICATOR_PTR field in the corresponding record was a null pointer.
For each column that can have a null value, set the corresponding pointer
to a non-null value.

For SQLGetData(), the column value was null but StrLen_or_Ind was a null
pointer. For each column that can have a null value, set the corresponding
StrLen_or_Ind value to a non-null value.


-11025	Numeric value out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22003. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(),
SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetInfo(),
and SQLPutData().

For SQLExecDirect() and SQLExecute(), the SQL statement contained a numeric
parameter or literal that was too large. Therefore, the function truncated
the whole (as opposed to fractional) part of the number before it assigned
the number to the associated column. Change the SQL statement so that each
numeric value fits into the associated column.

For SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), or SQLGetData(), the result set contains
one or more columns that have values that are too large for the associated
return parameters. If the function returned the value as a numeric value or
string, the function truncated the whole (as opposed to fractional) part of
the number. If the function returned the value as a binary value, the number
lost binary significance. Change the return parameters so that each one can
accommodate the associated value in the result set.

For SQLGetInfo(), the requested information would lose numeric or binary
significance if the function returned it. Set the storage for the requested
information to a size that can accommodate the information.

For SQLPutData(), you called the function more than once for a parameter or
column and one of the following problems occurred: (1) You called the function
to send data to a column that does not have a character, binary, or
data-source-specific data type, or (2) The function truncated the whole (as
opposed to fractional) part of a number to assign it to the associated column.
Call SQLPutData() only for a column that has a character, binary, or
data-source-specific data type, and change the data that you are sending so
that it does not exceed the size of the column.

Returning the numeric value (as a numeric or string) for one or more
columns causes the whole (as opposed to fractional) number to truncate.
For the range of values for the numeric parameter or column type that
you tried to write or fetch, check the GBase CLI Programmer's
Manual.



-11026	Error in assignment.

The argument szSqlStr contains an SQL statement that contains a
parameter or literal, and the value is incompatible with the data type
of the associated table column. Check the list of compatible data types
associated with the table column.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22005. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLGetData(), SQLPrepare(), and SQLPutData().

For SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), or SQLPrepare(), the SQL statement or
prepared statement contained a parameter or literal that was incompatible
with the data type of the associated column. Change the statement so that
each parameter and literal is compatible with the data type of the column.

For SQLExtendedFetch() or SQLFetch(), the function fetched a zero-length
string that you had bound to a numeric data type, so the function converted
the string to a zero. Change the data type of the parameter that is bound to
the string.

For SQLGetData() or SQLPutData(), the data type for the column is incompatible
with the data type for the parameter. Change the data type for the parameter
so that it is compatible with the data type for the column.



-11027	Datetime field overflow.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22008. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLGetData(), and SQLPutData().

The argument szSqlStr contains an SQL statement that contains a date,
time, time-stamp parameter, or literal that is invalid. For the valid
values of the szSqlStr argument, check the GBase CLI Programmer's
Manual.

For SQLExecDirect() or SQLExecute(), the function converted an SQL_C_DATE or
SQL_C_TIMESTAMP value to an SQL_CHAR value, and the resulting value was not a
valid date or time stamp. Change the SQL_C_DATE or SQL_C_TIMESTAMP value so
that it will be a valid date or time stamp after the function converts it to
an SQL_CHAR value.

For SQLExtendedFetch() or SQLFetch(), the SQL statement or prepared statement
contained an invalid date or time stamp. Change the statement so that the date
and time stamp values are valid.

For SQLGetData() or SQLPutData(), the data that the function sent or received
was an invalid date or time stamp. For SQLPutData(), change the data so that
it is a valid date or time stamp.




-11028	Division by zero.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22012. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData().

You either sent an arithmetic expression in an SQL statement or prepared
statement to a database server, or a database server returned an arithmetic
expression. This expression caused division by zero. Change the arithmetic
expression so that it does not cause division by zero.


-11029	String data, length mismatch.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22026. The
following function can return this error code: SQLParamData().

Before you called SQLParamData(), SQLGetInfo() returned "Y" when you called
it with an information type of SQL_NEED_LONG_DATA_LEN. You then sent less
data than the amount that the pcbValue argument specified in
SQLBindParameter(). Send the amount of data that pcbValue specifies.


-11030	Integrity constraint violation.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 23000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLExecute().

One of the following problems occurred for one of the parameters in the SQL
statement or prepared statement: (1) The parameter was null for a column that
is defined as not null, or (2) The parameter provided a duplicate value for a
column that can contain only unique values, or (3) The parameter violated some
other integrity constraint. Change the parameter so that it does not violate
any integrity constraints.


-11031	Invalid cursor state.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 24000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLColAttributes(),
SQLColumnPrivileges(), SQLColumns(), SQLDescribeCol(), SQLExecDirect(),
SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetData(),
SQLGetStmtOption(), SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(),
SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(), SQLSetCursorName(),
SQLSetStmtOption(), SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(),
SQLTablePrivileges(), and SQLTables().

A cursor is open on hstmt, and SQLFetch or SQLExtendedFetch was not
called. Check the sequence of operations. For example, confirm that you
are not trying to execute an EXECUTE statement before the PREPARE
statement finishes.

One of the following problems occurred:

(1) The statement that is associated with the statement handle does not return
a result set because there are no columns to describe. Change the statement so
that it returns a result set. This problem can occur for SQLColAttributes()
and SQLDescribeCol().

(2) You already opened a cursor for the statement handle. Use the cursor that
you already opened. This problem can occur for SQLColumnPrivileges(),
SQLColumns(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), SQLForeignKeys(),
SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(), SQLProcedureColumns(),
SQLProcedures(), SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(),
and SQLTables().

(3) The cursor was positioned before the start of the result set or after the
end of the result set. Make sure that the cursor is positioned within the
result set. This problem can occur for SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLGetData(), and SQLGetStmtOption().

(4) The statement handle was in an executed state, but no result set was
associated with the statement handle. Make sure that a result set is
associated with the statement handle. This problem can occur for
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData().

(5) You opened a cursor for the statement handle, but you did not call
SQLFetch() or SQLExtendedFetch(). Call SQLFetch() or SQLExtendedFetch() after
you open a cursor for a statement handle. This problem can occur for
SQLGetData().

(6) The fOption value was SQL_ROW_NUMBER, but the cursor was not open. Open a
cursor before you use an fOption value of SQL_ROW_NUMBER. This problem can
occur for SQLGetStmtOption().

(7) The statement handle was already in an executed state or a
cursor-positioned state. Do not call this function for a statement handle
that has already been executed or is already in a cursor-positioned state.
This problem can occur for SQLSetCursorName().

(8) The fOption value was SQL_CONCURRENCY, SQL_SIMULATE_CURSOR, or
SQL_CURSOR_TYPE, and the cursor was open. Do not use an open cursor for one
of these fOption values. This problem can occur for SQLSetStmtOption().



-11032	Invalid transaction state.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 25000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDisconnect().

A transaction is in process on the hdbc connection. The transaction remains
active. Wait for the transaction to finish before you call SQLDisconnect()
for the hdbc connection.


-11033	Invalid authorization specification.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 28000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect().

Either the user identifier or the authorization string or both, as
specified in the browse request connection string, violated
restrictions that the data source defined. Confirm that you logged in
correctly and that your password is current.


-11034	Invalid cursor name.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 34000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLPrepare(),
and SQLSetCursorName().

The argument szSqlStr contains a positioned update or delete statement,
and the cursor referenced by the statement being executed is not open.
Check that the cursor is executed.

For SQLExecDirect() or SQLPrepare(), the SQL statement contained a positioned
UPDATE or DELETE, but the cursor that the statement references was not open.
Make sure that the cursor for an UPDATE or DELETE statement is open.

For SQLSetCursorName(), the cursor name was invalid. For example, it might
exceed the maximum allowable length. Make sure that the cursor name is valid.



-11035	Syntax error or access violation.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 37000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(),
SQLNativeSql(), and SQLPrepare().


The argument szSqlStr contains an SQL statement that is not preparable
or contains a syntax error. Check the syntax of the SQL statement and
make any necessary corrections.



-11036	Duplicate cursor name.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 3C000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLSetCursorName().

The cursor name specified already exists. Specify a unique cursor name. 


-11037	Serialization failure.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 40001. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), and SQLFetch().

GBase CLI terminated the transaction to prevent deadlock. If you
consistently receive this error, a problem exists with the logic in your
application.


-11038	Syntax error or access violation.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 42000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
and SQLPrepare().

The user does not have the privileges necessary to execute the SQL statement,
or the SQL statement was not prepared, or the statement contained a syntax
error. If you consistently receive this error, a problem exists with the logic
in your application.




-11039	Operation aborted.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 70100. The
following function can return this error code: SQLCancel().

The data source did not process the cancel request because the database
server does not support this function.


-11040	Driver does not support this function.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM001. The
following functions can return this error code: all ODBC functions except
SQLAllocEnv(), SQLDataSources(), SQLDrivers(), SQLError(), SQLFreeConnect(),
SQLFreeEnv(), and SQLGetFunctions().

GBase CLI does not support this function. Do not call this function.



-11041	Data source name not found and no default driver specified.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM002. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect().

One of the following problems occurred: (1) The function cannot find the
initialization file, or (2) The data source that the szConnStrn string
specified does not exist in the initialization file, and a default driver
specification does not exist. Make sure that the initialization file exists.
Add the specified data source to the initialization file or create a default
driver specification.

The data source name specified in the connection request is not found
in the ODBC.INI file or registry, and there is no default driver
specification. Confirm that the data source name is registered. You can
also provide a default data source.


-11042	Specified driver could not be loaded.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM003. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect().

The driver listed in the data source specification in the ODBC.INI file
or registry or the driver that the DRIVER keyword specifies is not
found or cannot be loaded. Make sure that the
specified driver exists. Confirm that you entered the correct
spelling and path for the driver.



-11043	Driver's SQLAllocEnv failed.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM004. The
following GBase CLI functions can return this error code:
SQLBrowseConnect(), SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect(). The function
called the driver version of SQLAllocEnv(), which returned an error. The
CLI driver does not return this error.

The most common failure could be attributed to a memory allocation failure.
Driver Manager's call to SQLAllocEnv could not succeed. See the error message
returned by SQLError in the szErrorMsg to describe any driver specific
SQLSTATE or error message if returned for other reasons.


-11044	Driver's SQLAllocConnect failed.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM005. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect(). The function called the driver
version of SQLAllocConnect(), which returned an error. The CLI driver
does not return this error.

The allocation of a connection handle may fail due to insufficient memory
or initialization of new Database Connection handle (DBC). See the error
message returned by SQLError in the szErrorMsg to describe driver specific
SQLSTATE or error message if returned for other reasons.


-11045	Driver's SQLSetConnectOption failed.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM006. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect(). The function called the driver version
of SQLSetConnectOption(), which returned an error. The CLI driver does not
return this error.

See the error message returned by SQLError in the szErrorMsg to describe
driver specific SQLSTATE or error message if returned for other reasons.


-11046	No data source or driver specified; dialog prohibited.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM007. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDriverConnect().

The connection information flag, fDriverCompletion, is SQL_DRIVER_NOPROMPT,
but the connection string does not provide enough information. Ensure that the driver
keyword is in the connection string, or set the fDriverCompletion flag
to SQLDriver prompt to have the driver prompt for additional connection
information.



-11047	Dialog failed.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM008. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDriverConnect().

GBase CLI could not display the SQL Data Sources dialog box or the login
dialog box because the hwnd value is null and the fDriverCompletion value is
not SQL_DRIVER_NO_PROMPT. Use different values for hwnd and fDriverCompletion.


-11048	Unable to load translation shared library (DLL).

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM009. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLConnect(), SQLDriverConnect(), and SQLSetConnectOption().

The driver is unable to load the translation DLL that is specified for
the data source or for the connection. Check that the name and path for
the DLL are correct.



-11049	Data source name too long.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM010. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect() and
SQLDriverConnect().

A data source name that is in the initialization file is too long. Change any
data source name that is too long.


-11049	Data source name too long.

The attribute value for DSN name is more than the maximum number of
characters. For the accepted number of characters in the DSN name,
check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11050	Driver name too long.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM011. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect() and
SQLDriverConnect().

The attribute value for the DRIVER keyword is more than 255 characters.
Use a keyword that is less than 255 characters.



-11051	DRIVER keyword syntax error.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM012. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect() and
SQLDriverConnect().

In the initialization file, the syntax for the line that sets the driver path
is incorrect. The keyword-value pair for the DRIVER keyword contains a syntax error.
Check that you entered the correct spelling and path for the driver.


-11053	Base table or view already exists.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0001. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained a CREATE TABLE or CREATE VIEW statement, but the
table name or view name already exists. Reword the query to use a unique table name or a unique view
name.



-11054	Base table not found.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0002. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained a DROP TABLE, DROP VIEW, ALTER TABLE, CREATE VIEW,
CREATE INDEX, GRANT, REVOKE, SELECT, DELETE, INSERT, UPDATE, or CREATE TABLE
statement, but the table name or view name does not exist. Make sure that the
necessary tables and views already exist.



-11055	Index already exists.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0011. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained a CREATE INDEX statement, but the index name
exists already. Reword the statement to use a unique index name.



-11056	Index not found.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0012. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained a DROP INDEX statement, but the specified index name did
not exist. Use an index name that exists already.


-11057	Column already exists.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0021. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The SQL statement contained an ALTER TABLE statement, but the column name
specified in the ADD clause is not unique or identifies a column that already
exists. Use column names that do not exist already.


-11058	Column not found.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S0022. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect() and
SQLPrepare().

The column cannot be associated with the table in the SQL statement.
Verify that you are using an existing table name in your SQL
statement.

The SQL statement contained a CREATE INDEX, GRANT, REVOKE, SELECT, DELETE,
INSERT, UPDATE, or CREATE TABLE statement, but one or more of the column
names did not exist. Use column names that exist already.



-11060	General error.

An error occurred that has no specific SQL_STATE. In this case,
additional text is provided that identifies the source of the problem.
This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000.



-11061	Memory allocation failure.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1001. The
following functions can return this error code: all GBase CLI functions
except SQLError(), SQLFreeConnect(), and SQLFreeEnv().

The driver or driver manager cannot allocate memory for the connection
handle. Try to reduce the number of processes currently running or
provide more memory.



-11062	Invalid column number.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1002. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol(),
SQLColAttributes(), SQLDescribeCol(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and
SQLGetData().

The value specified for the argument icol exceeds the maximum number of
columns that the cursor defines. Confirm that the column number you are
fetching is in the result set of the cursor.

For all functions except SQLGetData(), a column number was 0, exceeded the
number of columns in the result set, or exceeded the number of columns that
the data source supports. For SQLBindCol(), make sure that the column number
does not exceed the maximum number of columns that the data source can
support. For SQLColAttributes(), use a descriptor type of SQL_COLUMN_COUNT
if the column number is 0 or exceeds the number of columns in the result set.
For SQLDescribeCol() and SQLFetch(), make sure that the column numbers are
not 0 and do not exceed the number of columns in the result set. For
SQLExtendedFetch(), set SQL_USE_BOOKMARKS to SQL_UB_OFF if column 0 is bound,
and make sure that the bound column numbers do not exceed the number of
columns in the result set.

For SQLGetData(), one of the following problems occurred: (1) The column
number was 0 and you either called SQLFetch() to get the data or you set
SQL_USER_BOOKMARKS to SQL_UB_OFF, (2) The column number exceeded the number
of columns in the result set, or (3) You already called SQLGetData() for
the current row. Make sure that you do not call SQLFetch() or set
SQL_USER_BOOKMARKS to SQL_UB_OFF if the column number is 0, that the column
number does not exceed the number of columns in the result set, and that
you have not already called SQLGetData() for the current row. 



-11063	Program type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1003. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol(),
SQLBindParameter(), and SQLGetData().

The GBase CLI C data type (fCType) argument was not a valid GBase CLI
C data type or SQL_C_DEFAULT. Set the GBase CLI C data type to a valid
value. 

For SQLBindCol(), it is also possible that the column number was 0 and the
GBase CLI C data type was not SQL_C_BOOKMARK. If the column number is 0,
set the GBase CLI C data type to SQL_C_BOOKMARK.


-11064	SQL data type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1004. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindParameter() and
SQLGetTypeInfo().

The value specified for the argument fSqlType is in the block of
numbers reserved for CLI SQL data type indicators but is not a valid
ODBC SQL data type indicator. Check that you are referring to an ODBC
SQL data type that this driver and this server support.

The GBase CLI SQL data type (fSqlType) argument was not a valid GBase
CLI SQL data type. Set GBase CLI SQL data type to a valid value.



-11065	Operation canceled.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1008. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLAllocConnect(),
SQLAllocStmt(), SQLBindCol(), SQLBindParameter(), SQLColumns(),
SQLExecDirect(), SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetInfo(),
SQLNativeSql(), SQLParamData(), SQLPrepare(), SQLProcedureColumns(),
SQLPutData(), SQLSetConnectOption(), SQLSetCursorName(), and
SQLSetStmtOption().

Before the function could complete execution, a different thread called
SQLCancel() for the statement handle. Fix your application logic.

For SQLParamData() and SQLPutData(), one of the following problems can also
occur: (1) You called SQLExecute() or SQLExecDirect() for the statement
handle and the function returned SQL_NEED_DATA, or (2) You called SQLCancel()
before data was sent for all data-at-execution parameters or columns. Fix
your application logic.


-11066	Invalid argument value.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1009. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLAllocConnect(),
SQLAllocStmt(), SQLBindParameter(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetInfo(),
SQLExecDirect(), SQLForeignKeys(), SQLNativeSql(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPutData(),
SQLSetConnectOption(), SQLSetCursorName(), and SQLSetStmtOption().

Check that the arguments passed with the CLI request are correct.

For SQLAllocConnect(), SQLAllocStmt(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLGetData(),
SQLNativeSql, SQLPrepare(), and SQLSetCursorName(), the pointer argument
(phdbc, phstmt, rgbValue, szCursor, szSqlStr, or szSqlStrIn) was a null
pointer. Set the pointer argument to a non-null value.

For SQLBindParameter(), rgbValue and pcbValue were null pointers and
fParamType was not SQL_PARAM_OUTPUT. Set rgbValue or pcbValue to a non-null
pointer or set fParamType to SQL_PARAM_OUTPUT.

For SQLForeignKeys(), szPkTableName and szFkTableName were null pointers. Set
szPkTableName or szFkTableName to a non-null pointer.

For SQLGetInfo(), fInfoType was SQL_DRIVER_HSTMT and rgbInfoValue did not
point to a valid statement handle. Change rgbInfoValue to point to a valid
statement handle.

For SQLPutData(), rgbValue was a null pointer and cbValue was not 0,
SQL_DEFAULT_PARAM, or SQL_NULL_DATA. Change cbValue to 0, SQL_DEFAULT_PARAM,
or SQL_NULL_DATA.

For SQLSetConnectOption() and SQLSetStmtOption(), vParam was not valid for
the specified fOption value. Change vParam to a valid value.



-11067	Function sequence error.

An asynchronously executing function is called for the hstmt and is
still executing when this function is called, or an attempt was made to
use an hstmt out of sequence. Check the sequence of operations. For
example, check that you are not trying to execute an EXECUTE statement
before the PREPARE statement is finished.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1010. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol(),
SQLBindParameter(), SQLColAttributes(), SQLColumnPrivilages(), SQLColumns(),
SQLDescribeCol(), SQLDisconnect(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLFreeConnect(), SQLFreeEnv(), SQLFreeStmt(),
SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetCursorName(), SQLGetData(),
SQLGetFunctions(), SQLGetStmtOption(), SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLMoreResults(),
SQLNumParams(), SQLNumResultCols(), SQLParamData(), SQLPrepare(),
SQLPrimaryKeys(), SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(), SQLPutData(),
SQLRowCount(), SQLSetConnectOption(), SQLSetCursorName(), SQLSetStmtOption(),
SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), SQLTables(), and
SQLTransact().

For SQLBindCol(), SQLBindParameter(), SQLColAttributes(),
SQLColumnPrivilages(), SQLColumns(), SQLDescribeCol(), SQLDisconnect(),
SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLFreeStmt(),
SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetCursorName(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetStmtOption(),
SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLMoreResults(), SQLNumParams(), SQLNumResultCols(),
SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(), SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(),
SQLRowCount(), SQLSetConnectOption(), SQLSetCursorName(), SQLSetStmtOption(),
SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), SQLTables(), and
SQLTransact(), GBase CLI called SQLExecute(), SQLExecDirect(), or
SQLSetPos() for the statement handle and returned SQL_NEED_DATA, which means
that you called this function before data was sent for the data-at-execution
parameters or columns. Wait until data is sent for all the data-at-execution
parameters or columns before you call this function.

Additionally for SQLColAttributes(), SQLDescribeCol(), SQLNumParams(), and
SQLNumResultCols(), you called this function before you called SQLPrepare()
or SQLExecDirect for the statement handle. Do not call this function before
SQLPrepare() or SQLExecDirect().

Additionally for SQLExecute(), the statement handle was not prepared due to
one of the following conditions: (1) The statement handle was not in an
executed state, (2) You opened a cursor on the statement handle and called
SQLFetch() or SQLExtendedFetch(), (3) The statement handle was in an executed
state but did not have a result set associated with it, or (4) The statement
handle was in an executed state but you did not call SQLFetch() or
SQLExtendedFetch(). Make sure that none of these conditions occurs.

Additionally for SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData(), one of the
following problems occurred: (1) The statement handle was not in an executed
state because you did not call SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), or a catalog
function before you called this function, or (2) You called this function
after you called SQLFetch() and before you called SQLFreeStmt() with the
SQL_CLOSE option. Make sure that neither of these conditions occurs.

For SQLFreeConnect(), you called this function before you called
SQLDisconnect() for the connection handle.

For SQLFreeEnv(), at least one connection handle was in an allocated or
connected state. Call SQLDisconnect() and SQLFreeConnect() for each
connection handle before you call this function.

For SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetFunctions(), and additionally for
SQLSetConnectOption(), GBase CLI called SQLBrowseConnect() for the
connection handle and returned SQL_NEED_DATA, which means that you called
this function before SQLBrowseConnect() returned SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO or
SQL_SUCCESS. Wait until SQLBrowseConnect() returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO or
SQL_SUCCESS before you call this function.

Additionally for SQLGetFunctions(), you called this function before you called
SQLConnect(), SQLBrowseConnect(), or SQLDriverConnect(). Do not call this
function before SQLConnect(), SQLBrowseConnect(), or SQLDriverConnect().

For SQLParamData(), the previous function call was to this function. Call this
function only after you call SQLExecDirect() or SQLExecute() where the return
code is SQL_NEED_DATA or after you call SQLPutData().

For SQLPutData(), the previous function call was to SQLExecDirect() or
SQLExecute() where the return code was SQL_NEED_DATA. Call this function only
after you call SQLParamData() or SQLPutData().

Additionally for SQLRowCount(), you called this function before you called
SQLExecute() or SQLExecDirect() for the statement handle. Do not call this
function before SQLExecute() or SQLExecDirect().



-11068	Operation invalid at this time.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1011. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLGetStmtOption(),
SQLSetConnectOption(), and SQLSetStmtOption().

For SQLGetStmtOption(), fOption was SQL_GET_BOOKMARK and SQL_USE_BOOKMARKS was
SQL_UB_OFF. If SQL_USE_BOOKMARKS is SQL_UB_OFF, do not use this option value.

For SQLSetConnectOption(), fOption was SQL_TXN_ISOLATION and a transaction was
open. Make sure that no transactions are open before you use this option
value.

For SQLSetStmtOption(), fOption was SQL_CONCURRENCY, SQL_SIMULATE_CURSOR, or
SQL_CURSOR_TYPE and the statement was prepared. If the statement is prepared,
do not use one of these option values.


-11069	Invalid transaction operation code specified.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1012. The
following function can return this error code: SQLTransact().

The value specified for the argument fType is neither SQL_COMMIT nor
SQL_ROLLBACK. Check the value and verify that it is valid for the ftype
parameter.


-11070	No cursor name available.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1015. The
following function can return this error code: SQLGetCursorName().


No open cursor exists on the hstmt, and no cursor name has been set
with SQLSetCursorName. Check the sequence of operations. For example,
check that you are not trying to execute an EXECUTE statement before
the PREPARE statement is finished.

The statement handle does not have an open cursor and did not previously call
SQLSetCursorName() to set a cursor name. Open a cursor or set a cursor name.



-11071	Invalid string or buffer length.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1090. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol(),
SQLBindParameter(), SQLBrowseConnect(), SQLColAttributes(),
SQLColumnPrivileges(), SQLColumns(), SQLConnect(), SQLDataSources(),
SQLDescribeCol(), SQLDriverConnect(), SQLDrivers(), SQLExecDirect(),
SQLExecute(), SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetCursorName(), SQLGetData(),
SQLGetInfo(), SQLNativeSql(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(),
SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(), SQLPutData(), SQLSetCursorName(),
SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), and SQLTables().

The value specified for the argument cbValueMax is less than zero.
Supply a value for the argument cbValueMax that is zero or greater.

For all functions, an argument that specified a string or buffer length, such
as cbCursor, cbConnStrIn, or cbSqlStr, had one or more of the following
problems: (1) It was less than 0, (2) It was less than 0 but not equal to
SQL_NTS or SQL_NULL_DATA, (3) It was less than 0 but the corresponding
pointer was not a null pointer, (4) It was equal to 1, or (5) It was too
large. Set the string or buffer length to a valid value.

Additionally for SQLExecDirect() and SQLExecute(), a parameter value that was
set with SQLBindParameter() had one of the following problems: (1) It was a
null pointer, and the parameter length was not 0, SQL_NULL_DATA,
SQL_DATA_AT_EXEC, or less than or equal to SQL_LEN_DATA_AT_EXEC_OFFSET, or
(2) It was not a null pointer, and the parameter length was less than 0 but
was not SQL_NTS, SQL_NULL_DATA, SQL_DATA_AT_EXEC, or less than or equal to
SQL_LEN_EXEC_DATA_AT_EXEC_OFFSET. Set the parameter value to a valid value.


-11072	Descriptor type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1091. The
following function can return this error code: SQLColAttributes().

The value specified for the argument fDescType is in the block of
numbers reserved for driver-specific descriptor types but is
unsupported by the driver. For a list of accepted descriptor types,
check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.

The fDescType argument was not a valid descriptor type. Set fDescType to a
valid value.



-11073	Option type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1092. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLFreeStmt(),
SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetStmtOption(), SQLSetConnectOption(), and
SQLSetStmtOption().

The value specified for the argument fOption is in the block of numbers
reserved for CLI connection and statement option but is not valid for
the version of ODBC that the driver supports. For a list of accepted
descriptor types, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.

The fOption argument was not a valid option value. Set fOption to a valid
value.


-11074	Invalid parameter number.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1093. The
following function can return this error code: SQLBindParameter().

The value specified for the argument ipar is less than one or is
greater than the maximum number of parameters that the data source
supports. To verify that the value is in the correct range for the
statement, check the SQL statement.

Either the ipar value was less than 1, or the ipar value exceeded the maximum
number of parameters that the data source supports. Set ipar to a valid value.



-11075	Invalid scale value.

The value that the argument ibScale specifies is outside the range of
values supported by the data source for a column of the SQL data type
that the fSqlType argument specifies. For a list of supported values
for the column type that fSqlType specifies, check the GBase CLI
Programmer's Manual.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1094. The
following function can return this error code: SQLBindParameter().

The ibScale value was invalid for the GBase CLI SQL data type (fSqlType)
argument. Set ibScale to a valid value. 



-11076	Function type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1095. The
following function can return this error code: SQLGetFunctions().

An invalid fFunction value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fFunction parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.




-11077	Information type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1096. The
following function can return this error code: SQLGetInfo().

The value specified for the argument fOption is in the block of numbers
reserved for CLI information types but is not valid for the version of
ODBC that the driver supports. For a list of supported features for
your driver version, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11078	Column type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1097. The
following function can return this error code: SQLSpecialColumns().

An invalid fColType value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fColType parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.



-11079	Scope type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1098. The
following function can return this error code: SQLSpecialColumns().

An invalid fScope value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fScope parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.




-11080	Nullable type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1099. The
following function can return this error code: SQLSpecialColumns().

An invalid fNullable value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fNullable parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.




-11081	Uniqueness option type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1100. The
following function can return this error code: SQLStatistics().

An invalid fUnique value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fUnique parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.



-11082	Accuracy option type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1101. The
following function can return this error code: SQLStatistics().

An invalid fAccuracy value is specified. For a list of valid values for
the fAccuracy parameter, check the GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11083	Direction option out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1103. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLDataSources() and
SQLDrivers().

The value specified for argument fDirection is not equal to zero. For a
list of valid values for the fDirection parameter, check the
GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11084	Invalid precision value.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1104. The
following function can return this error code: SQLBindParameter().

The value specified for the argument cbColDef is outside the range of
values supported by the data source for a column of the SQL data type
that the fSqlType argument specifies. For a list of valid values for
the column type that the fSqlType argument specifies, check the
GBase CLI Programmer's Manual.


-11085	Invalid parameter type.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1105. The
following function can return this error code: SQLBindParameter().

The value specified for the argument fParamType is invalid. For a list
of valid values for the fParamType parameter, check the GBase CLI
Programmer's Manual.

One of the following problems occurred: (1) The fParamType argument was not a
valid parameter type, or (2) fParamType was SQL_PARAM_OUTPUT and the parameter
is not an output parameter, or (3) fParamType was SQL_PARAM_INPUT and the
parameter is an output parameter. Set fParamType to a valid value that
corresponds to the type of parameter.


-11086	Fetch type out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1106. The
following function can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch().

The value specified for the argument fFetchType is invalid. For a list
of valid values for the fFetchType parameter, check the GBase CLI
Programmer's Manual.

One of the following problems occurred: (1) The fFetchType argument was not a
valid fetch type, or (2) SQL_CURSOR_TYPE was SQL_CURSOR_FORWARD_ONLY but
fFetchType was not SQL_FETCH_NEXT. Set fFetchType to a valid value that
corresponds to the cursor type.



-11087	Row value out of range.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1107. The
following function can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch().

SQL_CURSOR_TYPE was SQL_CURSOR_KEYSET_DRIVEN but the SQL_KEYSET_SIZE value was
greater than 0 and less than the SQL_ROWSET_SIZE value. Set SQL_KEYSET_SIZE to
a value that is valid for the SQL_CURSOR_TYPE value.


-11088	Concurrency option out of range.

The value specified for the argument fConcurrency is not equal to
SQL_CONCUR_READ_ONLY, SQL_CONCUR_LOCK, SQL_CONCUR_ROWVER, or
SQL_CONCUR_VALUES. Check that the SQL statement uses one of the listed
accepted values for the fConcurrency parameter.


-11089	Invalid cursor position.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1109. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecute(), SQLExecDirect(),
SQLGetData(), and SQLGetStmtOption().

The cursor is on a row that was deleted or that has an error. Do not try to
perform an action on a row that was deleted or that has an error.


-11090	Invalid driver completion.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1110. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDriverConnect().

The value specified for the fDriverCompletion argument is not equal to
SQL_DRIVER_PROMPT, SQL_DRIVER_COMPLETE, SQL_DRIVER_COMPLETE_REQUIRED,
or SQL_DRIVER_NOPROMPT. Check that the SQL statement uses one of the
listed accepted values for the fDriverCompletion parameter.



-11091	Invalid bookmark value

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY111
(ODBC2.x state is S1111). The following functions can return this error
code: SQLExtendedFetch and SQLFetchScroll.

For SQLExtendedFetch, the argument FetchOrientation was
SQL_FETCH_BOOKMARK, and the bookmark specified in the FetchOffset
argument was not valid.

For SQLFetchScroll, the argument FetchOrientation was SQL_FETCH_BOOKMARK,
and the bookmark pointed to by the value in the
SQL_ATTR_FETCH_BOOKMARK_PTR statement attribute was not valid or was a
null pointer.


-11092	Driver not capable.

The driver or data source does not support the function requested. For
a list of supported driver functions, check the GBase CLI
Programmer's Manual.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1C00. The
following functions can return this error code:

SQLBindCol(), SQLBindParameter(), SQLColAttributes(), SQLColumnPrivileges(),
SQLColumns(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(),
SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetData(), SQLGetInfo(),
SQLGetStmtOption(), SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(),
SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(), SQLSetConnectOption(),
SQLSetScrollOptions(), SQLSetStmtOption(), SQLSpecialColumns(),
SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), SQLTables(), and SQLTransact().

For SQLBindCol(), the data source does not support the GBase CLI C data
type (fCType) argument, or the icol value was 0. Set the GBase CLI C data
type to a value that the data source supports and set icol to a valid value.

For SQLBindParameter(), SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), and SQLGetData(), one
of the following problems occurred: (1) It is not possible to convert the
result data (the data value associated with the GBase CLI C data type
(fCType) argument) to the data type of the parameter (the data value
associated with the GBase CLI SQL data type (fSqlType) argument), or
(2) The data source does not support the GBase CLI SQL data type or
(3) The data source does not support the fetch type. Set the GBase CLI C
and SQL data types to values that make it possible to convert the result data
to the data type of the parameter and set the GBase CLI SQL data type and
fetch type to values that the data source supports.

For SQLColAttributes(), the fDescType value is not a valid descriptor type.
Use a valid value for fDescType.

For SQLColumnPrivileges(), SQLColumns(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLForeignKeys(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(), SQLProcedureColumns(),
SQLProcedures(), SQLSpecialColumns(), SQLStatistics(), SQLTables(), and
SQLTablePrivileges(), one of the following problems occurred: (1) You
specified a qualifier for the procedure or table, but the data source does not
support qualifiers, or (2) You specified an owner for the procedure or table,
but the data source does not support owners, or (3) You specified a string
search pattern for the procedure owner, procedure name, or column name, but
the data source does not support search patterns for that argument, or (4) The
combination of the SQL_CONCURRENCY value and the SQL_CURSOR_TYPE value is
invalid. Do not set a qualifier, owner, or search pattern for a data source
that does not support them and set the concurrency and cursor type values so
that the combination of the values is valid.

For SQLGetConnectOption(), SQLGetStmtOption(), SQLSetConnectOption(), and
SQLSetStmtOption(), the fOption value is not a valid option value. Set fOption
to a valid value.

Additionally for SQLGetData(), the data source does not support the use of
SQLGetData() with multiple rows in SQLExtendedFetch(), or the icol value was 0.
Use SQLGetData() with multiple rows in SQLExtendedFetch() only if the data
source supports this task and do not set icol to 0.

For SQLGetInfo(), the fInfoType value was not a valid information type. Set
fInfoType to a valid value.

For SQLGetTypeInfo(), the data source does not support the GBase CLI SQL
data type (fSqlType) argument), or the combination of the SQL_CONCURRENCY
value and the SQL_CURSOR_TYPE value is invalid. Set the GBase CLI SQL
data type to a value that the data source supports, and set the concurrency
and cursor type values so that the combination of the values is valid.

For SQLTransact(), the data source does not support the ROLLBACK operation. Do
not set fType to SQL_ROLLBACK.



-11094	Timeout expired.

The time-out period expired before the connection to the data source
completed. The time-out period is set through SQL_SetConnectionOption,
SQL_LOGIN_TIMEOUT.

This GBase CLI error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1T00. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBrowseConnect(),
SQLColAttributes(), SQLColumnPrivileges(), SQLColumns(), SQLConnect(),
SQLDescribeCol(), SQLDriverConnect(), SQLExecDirect(), SQLExecute(),
SQLExtendedFetch(), SQLFetch(), SQLForeignKeys(), SQLGetData(),
SQLGetInfo(), SQLGetTypeInfo(), SQLMoreResults(), SQLNumParams(),
SQLNumResultCols(), SQLParamData(), SQLPrepare(), SQLPrimaryKeys(),
SQLProcedureColumns(), SQLProcedures(), SQLPutData(), SQLSpecialColumns(),
SQLStatistics(), SQLTablePrivileges(), and SQLTables().

For SQLBrowseConnect(), SQLConnect(), and SQLDriverConnect(), the time-out
period expired before the function could complete the connection to the data
source. Call SQLSetConnectOption() to change SQL_LOGIN_TIMEOUT.

For all other functions, the time-out period expired before the data source
could process the information and, if necessary, return a result set or
requested information. Call SQLSetConnectOption() to change SQL_QUERY_TIMEOUT.



-11095	Invalid attribute value

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLSetConnectAttr,
SQLSetEnvAttr, and SQLSetStmtAttr.

For SQLSetConnectAttr, given the specified Attribute value, an invalid
value was specified in ValuePtr. (The Driver Manager returns this
SQLSTATE only for connection and statement attributes that accept a
discrete set of values, such as SQL_ATTR_ACCESS_MODE or
SQL_ATTR_ASYNC_ENABLE. For all other connection and statement attributes,
the driver must verify the value specified in ValuePtr.) The Attribute
argument was SQL_ATTR_TRACEFILE or SQL_ATTR_TRANSLATE_LIB, and ValuePtr
was an empty string.

For SQLSetEnvAttr, given the specified Attribute value, an invalid value
was specified in ValuePtr.

For SQLSetStmtAttr, given the specified Attribute value, an invalid value
was specified in ValuePtr. (The Driver Manager returns this SQLSTATE only
for connection and statement attributes that accept a discrete set of
values, such as SQL_ATTR_ACCESS_MODE or SQL_ ATTR_ASYNC_ENABLE. For all
other connection and statement attributes, the driver must verify the
value specified in ValuePtr.) The Attribute argument was
SQL_ATTR_APP_ROW_DESC or SQL_ATTR_APP_PARAM_DESC, and ValuePtr was an
explicitly allocated descriptor handle that is not on the same connection
as the StatementHandle argument.


-11097	Optional feature not implemented.


This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HYC00. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol,
SQLBindParameter, SQLBulkOperations, SQLColAttribute,
SQLColumnPrivileges, SQLColumns, SQLDriverConnect, SQLEndTran,
SQLExecDirect, SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll,
SQLForeignKeys, SQLGetConnectAttr, SQLGetData, SQLGetEnvAttr, SQLGetInfo,
SQLGetStmtAttr, SQLGetTypeInfo, SQLParamData, SQLPrepare, SQLPrimaryKeys,
SQLProcedureColumns, SQLProcedures, SQLSetConnectAttr, SQLSetEnvAttr,
SQLSetPos, SQLSetStmtAttr, SQLSpecialColumns, SQLStatistics,
SQLTablePrivileges, and SQLTables.

The value specified for the argument Attribute was a valid ODBC
environment attribute for the version of ODBC supported by the driver,
but the attribute was not supported by the driver. For more detailed
information, see the ODBC Reference Manual.


-11099	Invalid name of File DSN

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value IM014. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDriverConnect.

For SQLDriverConnect, the string in InConnectionString contained a
FILEDSN keyword, but the name of the .DSN file was invalid.


-11103	Invalid descriptor index

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 07009. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol,
SQLBindParameter, SQLBulkOperations, SQLColAttribute, SQLDescribeCol,
SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll, SQLGetData, SQLGetDescField, SQLGetDescRec,
SQLSetDescField, SQLSetDescRec, and SQLSetPos.

For SQLBindCol, SQLBindParameter, SQLColAttribute, SQLGetData, and
SQLDescribeCol, the value specified for column exceeded the maximum
number of columns in the result set.

For SQLBulkOperations, the argument Operation was SQL_ADD, and a column
was bound with a column number greater than the number of columns in the
result set.

For SQLFetch, the driver was an ODBC 2.x driver that does not support
SQLExtendedFetch, and a column number specified in the binding for a
column was 0.

For SQLFetchScroll, Column 0 was bound, and the SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS
statement attribute was set to SQL_UB_OFF.

For SQLSetDescField and SQLGetDescField, the RecNumber argument was equal
to 0, the SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARK statement attribute was SQL_UB_OFF, and
the DescriptorHandle argument was an IRD handle. (This error can be
returned for an explicitly allocated descriptor only if the descriptor is
associated with a statement handle.) The FieldIdentifier argument was a
record field, the RecNumber argument was 0, and the DescriptorHandle
argument was an IPD handle. The RecNumber argument was less than 0.

For SQLSetDescRec and SQLGetDescRec, the FieldIdentifier argument was a
record field, the RecNumber argument was set to 0, and the
DescriptorHandle argument was an IPD handle. The RecNumber argument was
set to 0, the SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS statement attribute was set to
SQL_UB_OFF, and the DescriptorHandle argument was an IRD handle.(DM) The
RecNumber argument was less than 0.

For SQLSetPos, the argument Operation was SQL_REFRESH or SQL_UPDATE, and
a column was bound with a column number greater than the number of
columns in the result set.


-11104	Invalid datetime format

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22007. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBulkOperations,
SQLExecDirect, SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll,
SQLGetData, SQLPutData, and SQLSetPos.

For SQLBulkOperations, the Operation argument was SQL_ADD, and the
assignment of a date or timestamp value to a column in the result set
caused the year, month, or day field to be out of range.

For SQLExecDirect and SQLExecute, StatementText contained an SQL
statement that contained a date, time, or timestamp structure as a
bound parameter, and the parameter was, respectively, an invalid date,
time, or timestamp.

For SQLFetch, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLGetData, and SQLFetchScroll, a
character column in the result set was bound to a date, time, or
timestamp C structure, and a value in the column was, respectively, an
invalid date, time, or timestamp.

For SQLPutData, an input/output or output parameter was bound to a date,
time, or timestamp C structure, and a value in the returned parameter
was, respectively, an invalid date, time, or timestamp. (Function
returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)

For SQLSetPos, the argument Operation was SQL_UPDATE, and the assignment
of a date or timestamp value to a column in the result set caused the
year, month, or day field to be out of range. The argument Operation was
SQL_REFRESH, and returning the date or timestamp value for one or more
bound columns would have caused the year, month, or day field to be out
of range.


-11105	Interval field overflow

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22015. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBulkOperations,
SQLExecDirect, SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll,
SQLGetData, SQLPutData, and SQLSetPos.

For SQLBulkOperations, the Operation argument was SQL_ADD or SQL_UPDATE_BY_BOOKMARK, and the assignment of a date or timestamp value
to a column in the result set caused the year, month, or day field to be
out of range.

For SQLExecute and SQLExecDirect, StatementText contained an exact
numeric or interval parameter that when converted to an interval SQL data
type caused a loss of significant digits. *StatementText contained an
interval parameter with more than one field that when converted to a
numeric data type in a column had no representation in the numeric data
type. StatementText contained parameter data that was assigned to an
interval SQL type, and there was no representation of the value of the
C type in the interval SQL type. Assigning an input/output or output
parameter that was an exact numeric or interval SQL type to an interval
C type caused a loss of significant digits. When an input/output or
output parameter was assigned to an interval C structure, there was no
representation of the data in the interval data structure.

SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLGetData, and SQLFetchScroll, assigning
from an exact numeric or interval SQL type to an interval C type caused
a loss of significant digits in the leading field. When data was fetched
to an interval C type, there was no representation of the value of the
SQL type in the interval C type.

For SQLPutData, the data sent for an exact numeric or interval column or
parameter to an interval SQL data type caused a loss of significant
digits. Data was sent for an interval column or parameter with more than
one field, was converted to a numeric data type, and had no
representation in the numeric data type. The data sent for column or
parameter data was assigned to an interval SQL type, and there was no
representation of the value of the C type in the interval SQL type. The
data sent for an exact numeric or interval C column or parameter to an
interval C type caused a loss of significant digits. The data sent for
column or parameter data was assigned to an interval C structure, and
there was no representation of the data in the interval data structure.

For SQLSetPos, the Operation argument was SQL_UPDATE, and the assignment
of an exact numeric or interval C type to an interval SQL data type
caused a loss of significant digits. The Operation argument was
SQL_UPDATE; when a value was assigned to an interval SQL type, there was
no representation of the value of the C type in the interval SQL type.
The Operation argument was SQL_REFRESH, and assigning from an exact
numeric or interval SQL type to an interval C type caused a loss of
significant digits in the leading field. The Operation argument was
SQL_REFRESH; when a value was assigned to an interval C type, there was
no representation of the value of the SQL type in the interval C type.


-11106	Invalid character value for cast specification

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 22018. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBulkOperations,
SQLExecDirect, SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll,
SQLGetData, SQLPutData, and SQLSetPos.

For SQLBulkOperations, the argument Operation was SQL_ADD; the SQL type
was an exact or approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data
type; the C type was SQL_C_CHAR; and the value in the column was not a
valid literal of the bound SQL type.

For SQLExecute and SQLExecDirect, StatementText contained a C type that
was an exact or approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data
type; the SQL type of the column was a character data type; and the value
in the column was not a valid literal of the bound C type. When an
input/output or output parameter was returned, the SQL type was an exact
or approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data type; the C type
was SQL_C_CHAR; and the value in the column was not a valid literal of
the bound SQL type.

For SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll, and SQLGetData, a
character column in the result set was returned to a character C buffer,
and the column contained a character for which there was no
representation in the character set of the buffer. The C type was an
exact or approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data type; the
SQL type of the column was a character data type; and the value in the
column was not a valid literal of the bound C type.

For SQLPutData, the C type was an exact or approximate numeric, a
datetime, or an interval data type; the SQL type of the column was a
character data type; and the value in the column or parameter was not a
valid literal of the bound C type. The SQL type was an exact or
approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data type; the C type
was SQL_C_CHAR; and the value in the column or parameter was not a valid
literal of the bound SQL type.

For SQLSetPos, the Operation argument was SQL_REFRESH; the C type was
an exact or approximate numeric, a datetime, or an interval data type;
the SQL type of the column was a character data type; and the value in
the column was not a valid literal of the bound C type. The argument
Operation was SQL_UPDATE; the SQL type was an exact or approximate
numeric, a datetime, or an interval data type; the C type was SQL_C_CHAR;
and the value in the column was not a valid literal of the bound SQL type


-11116	Invalid application buffer type

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY003. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindCol,
SQLBindParameter, and SQLGetData.

For SQLBindCol and SQLGetData, the argument TargetType was neither a
valid data type nor SQL_C_DEFAULT.

For SQLBindParameter, the value specified by the argument ValueType was
not a valid C data type or SQL_C_DEFAULT.


-11117	Associated statement is not prepared.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY007. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLCopyDesc,
SQLGetDescField, and SQLGetDescRec.

For SQLCopyDesc, SQLGetDescField, and SQLGetDescRec, DescriptorHandle
was associated with a StatementHandle as an IRD, and the associated
statement handle had not been prepared or executed.


-11118	Invalid use of null pointer

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY009. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLAllocHandle,
SQLBindParameter, SQLColumnPrivileges, SQLColumns, SQLExecDirect,
SQLForeignKeys, SQLNativeSql, SQLPrepare, SQLPrimaryKeys,
SQLProcedureColumns, SQLProcedures, SQLPutData, SQLSetConnectAttr,
SQLSetCursorName, SQLSetEnvAttr, SQLSetStmtAttr, SQLSpecialColumns,
SQLStatistics, SQLTablePrivileges, and SQLTables.

For SQLAllocHandle, SQLExecDirect, SQLNativeSql, SQLPrepare, SQLPutData,
SQLSetConnectAttr, SQLSetCursorName, SQLSetEnvAttr, and SQLSetStmtAttr,
the argument was a null pointer.

For SQLForeignKeys, SQLPrimaryKeys, SQLStatistics, SQLTablePrivileges,
and SQLTables, the TableName argument was a null pointer. The
SQL_ATTR_METADATA_ID statement attribute was set to SQL_TRUE, the
CatalogName argument was a null pointer, and the SQL_CATALOG_NAME
InfoType returns that catalog names are supported. The
SQL_ATTR_METADATA_ID statement attribute was set to SQL_TRUE, and the
SchemaName or ColumnName argument was a null pointer.

For SQLColumn, SQLColumnPrivileges, SQLProcedures, SQLProcedureColumns,
and SQLSpecialColumns, the SQL_ATTR_METADATA_ID statement attribute was
set to SQL_TRUE, the CatalogName argument was a null pointer, and the
SQL_CATALOG_NAME InfoType returns that catalog names are supported.(DM)
The SQL_ATTR_METADATA_ID statement attribute was set to SQL_TRUE, and the
SchemaName, ProcName, or ColumnName argument was a null pointer.


-11119	Attribute cannot be set now.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY011. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBulkOperations,
SQLSetConnectAttr, SQLSetEnvAttr, SQLSetPos, and SQLSetStmtAttr.

For SQLBulkOperations and SQLSetPos, the driver was an ODBC 2.x driver;
the SQL_ATTR_ROW_STATUS_PTR statement attribute was set; then SQLSetPos
was called before SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll, or SQLExtendedFetch was
called.

For SQLSetConnectAttr, the Attribute argument was SQL_ATTR_TXN_ISOLATION,
and a transaction was open.

For SQLSetEnvAttr, a connection handle has been allocated on
EnvironmentHandle.(DM) The Attribute argument was SQL_ATTR_OUTPUT_NTS,
and the SQL_ATTR_ODBC_VERSION attribute had not been set.

For SQLSetStmtAttr, the Attribute was SQL_ATTR_CONCURRENCY,
SQL_ATTR_CURSOR_TYPE, SQL_ATTR_SIMULATE_CURSOR, or
SQL_ATTR_USE_BOOKMARKS, and the statement was prepared.


-11120	Memory management error

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY013. The
following functions can return this error code: all ODBC functions
except: SQLGetDiagField and SQLGetDiagRec.

The function call could not be processed because the underlying memory
objects could not be accessed, possibly because of low memory conditions.


-11122	Cannot modify an implementation row descriptor.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY016. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLCopyDesc,
SQLSetDescField, and SQLSetDescRec.

For SQLCopyDesc and SQLSetDescRec, DescHandle was associated with an IRD.

For SQLSetDescField, the DescriptorHandle argument was associated with an
IRD, and the FieldIdentifier argument was not SQL_DESC_ARRAY_STATUS_PTR
or SQL_DESC_ROWS_PROCESSED_PTR.


-11123	Invalid use of an automatically allocated descriptor handle

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY017. The following functions can return this error code: SQLFreeHandle and SQLSetStmtAttr.

For SQLFreeHandle, the Handle argument was set to the handle for an
automatically allocated descriptor.

For SQLSetStmtAttr, the Attribute argument was SQL_ATTR_IMP_ROW_DESC or
SQL_ATTR_IMP_PARAM_DESC.(DM) The Attribute argument was
SQL_ATTR_APP_ROW_DESC or SQL_ATTR_APP_PARAM_DESC, and the value in
ValuePtr was an implicitly allocated descriptor handle other than the
handle originally allocated for the ARD or APD.


-11127	Inconsistent descriptor information

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value HY021. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLBindParameter,
SQLCopyDesc, SQLGetDescField, SQLSetDescField, and SQLSetDescRec.

For SQLBindParameter, the descriptor information checked during a
consistency check was not consistent. The value specified for the
argument DecimalDigits was outside the range of values supported by the
data source for a column of the SQL data type specified by the
ParameterType argument.

For SQLCopyDesc, SQLSetDescField, and SQLSetDescRec, the descriptor
information checked during a consistency check was not consistent.

For SQLGetDescField, the SQL_DESC_TYPE and
SQL_DESC_DATETIME_INTERVAL_CODE fields do not form a valid ODBC SQL type,
a valid driver-specific SQL type (for IPDs), or a valid ODBC C type (for
APDs or ARDs).


-11275	Cursor operation conflict

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01001. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect,
SQLExecute, and SQLSetPos.

For SQLExecute and SQLExecDirect, StatementText contained a positioned
update or delete statement and no rows or more than one row were updated
or deleted. (For more information about updates to more than one row, see
the description of the SQL_ATTR_SIMULATE_CURSOR Attribute in
SQLSetStmtAttr.) (Function returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)

For SQLSetPos, the Operation argument was SQL_DELETE or SQL_UPDATE, and
no rows or more than one row were deleted or updated. (For more
information about updates to more than one row, see the description of
the SQL_ATTR_SIMULATE_CURSOR Attribute in SQLSetStmtAttr.) (Function
returns SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)


-11278	Fractional truncation.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S07. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect,
SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll, SQLGetData, and
SQLSetPos

For SQLExecDirect, SQLExecute, SQLExtendedFetch, SQLFetch,
SQLFetchScroll, and SQLGetData, the data returned for an input/output or
output parameter was truncated such that the fractional part of a numeric
data type was truncated or the fractional portion of the time component
of a time, timestamp, or interval data type was truncated.

For SQLSetPos, the Operation argument was SQL_REFRESH, the data type of
the application buffer was not SQL_C_CHAR or SQL_C_BINARY, and the data
returned to application buffers for one or more columns was truncated.
For numeric data types, the fractional part of the number was truncated.
For time, timestamp, and interval data types that contain a time
component, the fractional portion of the time was truncated.


-11280	Invalid keyword.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S09. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDriverConnect.

For SQLDriverConnect, the string in *InConnectionString contained a
SAVEFILE keyword but not a DRIVER or FILEDSN keyword. (Function returns
SQL_SUCCESS_WITH_INFO.)


-11301	A protocol error has been detected. Current connection is
closed.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 08S01.

Connection is closed by the database server.

Try running the client application again.


-11305	SQLGetTypeInfo supported for FORWARD_ONLY Cursors

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLGetTypeInfo.

Change your cursor type to SQL_CURSOR_FORWARD_ONLY.


-11307	In SQLExtendedFetch, only SQL_FETCH_NEXT is supported for
SQL_SCROLL_FORWARD_ONLY cursors.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLExtendedFetch.


-11310	Create and Drop database must be executed within a ServerOnly
connection.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLPrepare.

Change your CONNECTDATABASE option to YES in the connect string for
SQLDriverConnect or remove this option from the connect string, as
default value of CONNECTDATABASE is YES.


-11320	Syntax Error

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLNativeSQL,
SQLExecDirect, and SQLPrepare.

Check your statement string for syntax error. Consult ODBC Reference
Manual for SQL syntax.


-11323	The statement contained an escape clause not supported by
this database driver.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLNativeSQL,
SQLExecDirect, and SQLPrepare.

Remove the escape clause from the statement string argument for the
above functions.


-11330	Invalid lo_stat structure.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLExecDirect.

Reopen the large object and then refetch the lo_stat structure.


-11331	Describe Parameter supported only for INSERT and UPDATE
statements.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following function can return this error code: SQLDescribeParam.


-11332	Expected number of parameters does not match parameters
returned from server.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect and
SQLExecute.

Check the number of output parameters bound for that statement. 


-11353	Database is not capable of supporting transactions. Check
logging mode.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01S02. The
following function can return this error code: SQLSetConnectAttr.


-11354	Any open cursors are now invalid and must be closed before
being used.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value 01000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect,
SQLExecute, and SQLSetConnectAttr.


-11414	Already in transaction. SPL routine could not get executed.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLExecDirect,
SQLExecute, SQLFetch, SQLFetchScroll, SQLExtendedFetch,
SQLBulkOperations, SQLParamData, and SQLSetPos.

Remove any redundant Begin Commit from the client application.


-11415	Cannot set LO Automatic option OFF when Standard ODBC Types
only is ON.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLSetStmtAttr and
SQLSetConnectAttr.

Turn the SQL_INFX_ATTR_ODBC_TYPES_ONLY off first before turning the
SQL_INFX_LO_AUTOMATIC_ATTR off for a statement or connection.


-11416	Cannot set Standard ODBC Types only to ON when LO Automatic
option is OFF.

This GBase ODBC error code is the same as SQLSTATE value S1000. The
following functions can return this error code: SQLSetStmtAttr and
SQLSetConnectAttr.

Turn the SQL_INFX_LO_AUTOMATIC_ATTR on first before turning the
SQL_INFX_ATTR_ODBC_TYPES_ONLY on for a statement or connection.


-11302	Insufficient Connection information was supplied.

This GBase CLI error code is an extended message to SQLSTATE value S1000.
GBase CLI functions that can generate this error: SQLConnect and
SQLDriverConnect.

Check the connect string passed to SQLDriverConnect for accurate information
or check the DSN entries. You must supply the required values to connect.


-11303	Input Connection string too large.

This GBase CLI error code is an extended message to SQLSTATE value S1000.
GBase CLI functions that can generate this error: SQLDriverConnect and
SQLBrowseConnect.

Length of the connection string should be less than 1024 bytes.


-11317	Invalid CONNECTDATABASE value specified.

This is an extended message to SQLSTATE value S1000. Functions that can
generate this error: SQLBrowseConnect and SQLDriverConnect.

Valid values are YES and NO (not case-sensitive).


-11318	Invalid VMBCHARLENEXACT value specified.

This is an extended message to SQLSTATE value S1000. Functions that can
generate this error: SQLBrowseConnect and SQLDriverConnect.

The valid values are 0 and 1.


-11400	Cannot rollback the transaction.

The application has faulty logic or the database server is down. Check the
native error for more information. 


-11401	TM down not successful.

TM did not shut down gracefully. Shut down and restart the MS DTC.


-11402	Not in DTC transaction.

You are trying to unenlist a transaction that is not in the MS DTC. This
situation occurs if the transaction timeout value is low. Use the MTS explorer
to increase the transaction timeout.


-11403	DSN required for DTC transactions.

Report this error to GBase Technical Support.


-11404	Failed to create RM in DTC transactions.

The amount of available memory is insufficient or the MS DTC log has become
corrupted. Check the amount of available memory and the MS DTC log.


-11405	Filed to get Resource Manager Object.

Report this error to GBase Technical Support.


-11406	Filed to get XID.

The MS DTC failed or the transaction timeout value is low. If the MS DTC
failed, restart it. Otherwise, use the MTS explorer to increase the
transaction timeout.


-11407	Opening of the database created error.

Check the GBase CLI error code. This problem might indicate that the
database was not created with a log.


-11408	Cannot enlist with RM.

The MS DTC might have failed. If so, restart it.


-11409	Failed to create Enlistment object out of memory.

The system has insufficient memory. Install more memory.


-11410	Prepare failed.

Report this error to GBase Technical Support.


-11411	Commit failed.

Report this error to GBase Technical Support.


-11412	Recover failed.

Report this error to GBase Technical Support.


-11413	Failed to connect to the server.

The database server might be down. If so, restart it.


-12000	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to lofd table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12001	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to lohd table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12002	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to sbspace table.

Sbspace entry might already be in the table.


-12003	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to chunkadj table.

Chunk with this number might already be in the table.


-12004	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to arcreg table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12005	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add entry to arcspace table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12006	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add smart large object to
truncation Q.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12007	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add smart large object to delete Q.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12008	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in lofd table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12009	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in lohd table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12010	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in sbspace table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12011	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in chunkadj table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12012	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in arcrec table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12013	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete entry in arcspace table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12014	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in lofd table.

An attempt was made to access a smart large object using an invalid LO file
descriptor.

Check that the LO file descriptor you supplied is correct and that the smart
large object is still open.


-12015	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in lohd table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12016	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in sbspace table.

Sbspace might not exist or invalid pointer.


-12017	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in chunkadj table.

This error is an internal error.

If this error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12018	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in arcrec table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12019	Smart Large Objects: Cannot find entry in arcspace table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12020	Smart Large Objects: Cannot unlock table entry.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12021	Smart Large Objects: Duplicate keys not allowed.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12022	Smart Large Objects: Duplicate entry in chunk adjtab.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12023	Smart Large Objects: chunk size is too small.

The smart-large-object chunk is less than the minimum required size.
Increase the chunk size in the onspaces command line. Check that you
are using the correct units.


-12024	Smart Large Objects: Chunk dropped from sbspace.

You attempted to reference a chunk that is being dropped from the
sbspace. If this error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-12025	Smart Large Objects: Chunk not empty.

You attempted to drop a smart-large-object chunk that still contained
data. The chunk was not dropped. To ensure that chunks you want to
drop are empty, delete the rows that contain pointers to smart large
objects in the chunk or remove the smart-large-object pointers in the
rows.


-12026	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete smart large object.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12027	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete SB_LOHD_SLOT.

You cannot delete the LO header page for a smart large object. The
chunk or sbspace might be inaccessible or the LO address might be
invalid. Ensure that the chunk is accessible. Ensure that the
smart-large-object address is still valid--that is, the smart large
object has not already been removed.


-12028	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete SB_LOMAP_SLOT.

You cannot delete an extent map for a smart large object. Ensure
that the chunk is accessible. If this error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12029	Smart Large Objects: Cannot delete SB_USERDATA_SLOT.

Cannot delete user data slot. First ensure that the chunk is accessible.
If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12030	Smart Large Objects: Cannot release memory buffer.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12031	Smart Large Objects: Sbspace is full.

The user data area or areas have insufficient storage for a write request.
Delete some smart large objects or add a chunk to the sbspace.


-12032	Smart Large Objects: Table is full.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12033	Smart Large Objects: Cannot insert SB_LOHD_SLOT.

You cannot insert a smart-large-object header page into the
smart-large-object header partition. Add a chunk to the smart-large-
object space with a metadata area.


-12034	Smart Large Objects: Invalid buffer size.

A smart-large-object read or write request specified an invalid length
for the input or output buffer. The length was likely less than 0.
Correct the smart-large-object application program.


-12035	Smart Large Objects: Invalid lock type.

You either passed an invalid lock type or tried to lock a byte range
exclusively after you opened the smart large object in read-only mode.

Check these two cases and use a valid lock type.


-12036	Smart Large Objects: Invalid sbspace name.

During a smart-large-object create operation, a nonexistent
smart-large-object space name was specified in the create
specification.

Create the specified smart-large-object space with the onspaces -c -S
command or ensure that the create specification used the correct sbspace
name.


-12037	Smart Large Objects: Invalid seek position.

During a smart-large-object read or write operation, a seek position
contained an invalid value. The value was likely less than 0. Correct
the smart-large-object application program so that it specifies a valid
read/write start position.


-12038	Smart Large Objects: Invalid access time flag combination.

During a smart-large-object CREATE or ALTER operation, a create
specification was provided that specified conflicting values for the
access time flag. Correct the smart-large-object application program.
Ensure that the create specification is set to the default NULL values
before you provide it to the smart-large-object subsystem. Use ifx_lo.


-12039	Smart Large Objects: Invalid whence value for seek.

The whence parameter for a smart-large-object seek or I/O operation
contains an invalid value. Set the whence parameter to the correct
value.


-12040	Smart Large Objects: Invalid truncate value for size.

The new size parameter supplied to a truncate operation for a smart
large object was invalid. The new size parameter was probably less than
zero. Correct the smart-large-object application program.


-12041	Smart Large Objects: Size of smart large object or buffer is too
big.

The size after a write or truncate operation exceeds the maximum size
limit for the smart large object. The system does not allow the size of
the smart large object to exceed the maximum number of bytes that the
application sets. This size limit was set by the CREATE or ALTER statement
for the smart large object.


-12042	Smart Large Objects: Size of page is too big.

The page size specified during an sbspace creation operation is too
big. Specify a page size that is less than the platform-dependent
maximum asynchronous I/O size or is greater than the subsystem
page-size limitation for the smart large object.


-12043	Smart Large Objects: Invalid create flags.

The smart-large-object create specification contains mutually
inconsistent flags. Fix the create specification flags in the
smart-large-object application program so that the flags do not
conflict. Before the create specification is used, ensure that the
create specification has been initialized to the appropriate default
values by using the function that the database server provides.


-12044	Smart Large Objects: Invalid integrity type flag combination.

The smart-large-object create specification contains conflicting flags
for the integrity field. Change the smart-large-object application
program so that no more than one integrity flag is set in the
smart-large-object create specification.


-12045	Smart Large Objects: Invalid logging mode combination.

The smart-large-object create specification contains conflicting flags
for the log-mode field. Change the smart-large-object application
program so that no more than one logging mode is specified in the
smart-large-object create specification. Before you use the create
specification, ensure that the create specification has been
initialized to the proper default values by using the functions that
the database server provides.


-12046	Smart Large Objects: Cannot enter critical section.

Call to isenter() failed.

Contact GBase Technical Support.


-12047	Smart Large Objects: sb_lo_map_offs failed.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12048	Smart Large Objects: unique ID does not match. Smart large object
probably deleted.

The smart large object being referenced by the smart-large-object pointer has
been deleted.

Ensure that the smart-large-object pointer is valid and that the smart large
object has not been deleted. If you are keeping a smart-large-object handle,
then the reference count for the smart large object must be greater than 0
or the database server deletes the smart large object at session end.


-12049	Smart Large Objects: No memory.

The system ran out of memory during a smart-large-object operation.

Add more virtual memory or determine the cause of the memory leak.


-12050	Smart Large Objects: dbm_bfget: Cannot get a memory buffer.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12051	Smart Large Objects: Smart large object was not opened for read.

You attempted to read a smart large object that was not open for
reading.

Change the smart-large-object application program so that it opens
the smart large object in read mode.


-12052	Smart Large Objects: Smart large object was not opened for write.

You attempted to write to a smart large object that was not open for
writing. Change the smart-large-object application program so that it
opens the smart large object for writing.


-12053	Smart Large Objects: No sbspace number specified.

No default sbspace was found, and the caller has not specified an sbspace
to use.

Either specify the smart-large-object space name in the
smart-large-object function call or set the SBSPACENAME onconfig
file parameter to the name of a valid smart-large-object space.


-12054	Smart Large Objects: Cannot open chunk adj partition.

The chunk might be down.

Ensure that the smart-large-object space chunk is up.


-12055	Smart Large Objects: Cannot open smart-large-object header
partition.

The chunk might be down.

Ensure that the smart-large-object space chunk is up.


-12056	Smart Large Objects: Cannot open sbspace.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12057	Smart Large Objects: Cannot open sbspace description partition.

The smart-large-object space is probably down, or an attempt was made
to open a space that should have been a smart-large-object space but
was not.

Ensure that the first chunk of the smart-large-object space is up.
Also ensure that an application program is not attempting to
perform TEXT or BYTE operations to a smart-large-object space.


-12058	Smart Large Objects: Cannot read chunk adjunct entry.

The smart-large-object space is corrupt or down.

If the space is down, perform the actions necessary to bring it back
online.


-12059	Smart Large Objects: open failed at read of smart-large-object
header.

Possibly you attempted to open a nonexistent or deleted smart large
object.

Ensure that the system is not collecting unreadable data in the
smart large object because of a zero reference count. Ensure that
the smart-large-object handle is not getting corrupted.


-12060	Smart Large Objects: Cannot read SB_LOMAP_SLOT.

The database server cannot read the extent map for the smart large
object.

Check to see if the smart-large-object space is corrupt or if
the chunk is down.


-12061	Smart Large Objects: Cannot read user data.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12062	Smart Large Objects: Error in user data free list.

User data free list cannot be manipulated.


-12063	Smart Large Objects: Cannot update SB_LOHD_SLOT.

Cannot read smart-large-object header page for smart large object. 
Cannot update smart-large-object header page for smart large object.


-12064	Smart Large Objects: Cannot update SB_LOMAP_SLOT.

Cannot update extent map for smart large object.


-12065	Smart Large Objects: Cannot update optimization data.

Optimization data cannot be put into the sbspace description entry.


-12066	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot build pre-image temporary
partition.

An attempt to create a temporary partition during an archive failed.

Ensure that the dbspace in which temporary partitions are placed is not
full and is accessible.


-12067	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot extend pre-image temporary
partition.

An attempt to lengthen a temporary partition during an archive failed.

Ensure that the dbspace in which temporary partitions are placed is not
full and is accessible.


-12068	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot drop pre-image temporary
partition during archive.

An attempt to drop the pre-image temporary partition failed. Ensure
that the dbspace in which temporary partitions are placed is
accessible.


-12069	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot write pre-image page to
temporary partition.

An attempt to write a pre-image page during archive failed. Ensure that
the dbspace in which the temporary partitions are placed is
accessible.


-12070	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot read pre-image page from
temporary partition.

An attempt to read a pre-image page during archive failed. Ensure that
the dbspace in which the temporary partitions are placed is
accessible.


-12071	Smart Blobs Archive: During restore, a page write failed.

During an archive restore, a page-write operation to the chunk failed.
Ensure that the device is accessible.


-12072	Smart Large Objects: Not implemented.

An unimplemented smart-large-object feature was accessed. Wait until the 
next release.


-12073	Smart Large Objects Archive: Archive already active on sbspace.

Another archive is already running on the same sbspace. Ensure that you
do not have another archive running on the same sbspace. Only one archive
operation on an sbspace at a time is permitted.


-12074	Smart Large Objects: Free extension list overflow.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12075	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot delete arch rec table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12076	Smart Large Objects Archive: Cannot create arch space table.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12077	Smart Large Objects Archive: Unexpected exit condition.

During an archive, the database server detected that the number of
pages it expected to read from the chunk was not the number of pages
that actually could be read. Try restarting the archive.


-12078	Smart Large Objects Archive: Illegal level specified for archiving.

You specified an illegal archive level. You must specify an archive
level of 0, 1, or 2.


-12079	Smart Large Objects: Cannot decrement zero reference count.

The reference count for the smart large object is already 0. Attempts
to decrement the reference count to less than 0 are ignored.


-12080	Smart Large Objects Archive: Page is outside user data area.

An attempt was made to archive a page outside the user data area. If
this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12081	Smart Large Objects Archive: illegal control page type in arc.

The archive tape was corrupted either by a user error or a database
server malfunction. Ensure that the archive file was not corrupted
through user error. If the archive file is intact, the database server
malfunctioned. You can either try to create another archive of the same
sbspace, or you can remove the sbspace from the list of spaces to be
archived and try to archive the remaining spaces.


-12082	Smart Large Objects Archive: invalid state encountered.

The smart-large-object archive program encountered an archive record
that was out of sequence. Ensure that the archive file has not been
corrupted through user error. If the archive file is intact, the
database server malfunctioned. You can either try to create another
archive of the same sbspace, or you can remove the sbspace from the
list of spaces to be archived and try to archive the remaining spaces.


-12083	Smart Large Objects: Restore: END_DESC record found before
SB_ARC_CHUNK_RECS record.

The archive tape was corrupted either by a user error or a database
server malfunction. Ensure that the archive file was not corrupted
through user error. If the archive file is intact, the database server
malfunctioned. You can either try to create another archive of the same
sbspace, or you can remove the sbspace from the list of spaces to be
archived and try to archive the remaining spaces.


-12084	Smart Large Objects: Restore: NULL control info block ptr;
archive records out of order.

The archive tape was corrupted either by a user error or a database
server malfunction. Ensure that the archive file was not corrupted
through user error. If the archive file is intact, the database server
malfunctioned. You can either try to create another archive of the same
sbspace, or you can remove the sbspace from the list of spaces to be
archived and try to archive the remaining spaces.


-12085	Smart Large Objects: Restore: SB_ARC_END_DESC record not found
for this chunk.

The archive tape was corrupted either by a user error or a database
server malfunction. Ensure that the archive file was not corrupted
through user error. If the archive file is intact, the database server
malfunctioned. You can either try to create another archive of the same
sbspace, or you can remove the sbspace from the list of spaces to be
archived and try to archive the remaining spaces.


-12086	Smart Large Objects: open: invalid open flags detected at
smart-large-object open time.

A programmer entered conflicting smart-large-object open flags. For
instance, LO_LOG and LO_NOLOG cannot be set at the same time. Check
open-flag settings to ensure that conflicting flags are not being set.
In addition, ensure that the smart-large-object open-flag field is
initialized.


-12087	Smart Large Objects: alter: attempt to change physical
characteristics of a smart large object in sb_alter.

The database administrator attempted to perform an alter operation on
a smart-large-object column that requires physical reorganization or
relocation of the smart large objects.

Do not attempt to reorganize smart large objects physically.
As an alternative to physical reorganization, try using the LOCopy
function to copy smart large objects to a new location with different
physical attributes.


-12088	Smart Large Objects: create: number of estimate bytes < -1.

The application programmer has specified an invalid value for the
estimated number of bytes in a smart large object. If the number of
bytes in a smart large object is unknown, set the estimated-number-of-bytes
field to -1 or call ifx_lo_def_create_spec or the equivalent mi function
and then leave this field alone.


-12089	Smart Large Objects: create: size limit of smart large
object < -1.

The application programmer specified an invalid value for the size
limit of the smart large object. If the number of bytes in a smart
large object is unknown, set the estimated-number-of-bytes field to -1
or call ifx_lo_def_create_spec or the equivalent mi function and then
leave this field alone.


-12090	Smart Large Objects: create: invalid column parameters.

The database server received a smart-large-object create specification
that has invalid values in the column portion. Either the application
programmer forgot to call the ifx_lo_def_create_spec function or the
mi equivalent with create specification, or the create specification
data structure has been corrupted.


-12091	Smart Large Objects: the in-memory sbspace table doesn't exist.

Database server initialization error.


-12092	Smart Large Objects: sbspace exists but is currently down.

Either the database server or the database administrator brought the
smart-large-object space down. Look at the database server log to determine
why the sbspace is down. You might need to bring up the sbspace.


-12093	Smart Large Objects: archive failed to create a mutex and
aborted.

The system could be out of memory.


-12094	Smart Large Objects: bad temporary partition page number.

If this error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12095	Smart Large Objects: create: Invalid Ext. size
(<number-of-kilobytes>) Ext. size < -1 or > MAXINT.

The application programmer specified an invalid value for the
estimated number of bytes in a smart large object. If the extent size
is out of range for a smart large object, set the estimated extent size
to -1 or call ifx_lo_def_create_spec or the equivalent mi function and
then leave this field alone.


-12096	Smart Large Objects: alter: New size limit < number of bytes in
the smart large object.

The application programmer specified an invalid value for the size
limit. The value must be greater than or equal to the current number
of bytes in the smart large object. If the new size limit is less than
the current number of bytes in the smart large object, do not alter the
value in the header.


-12097	Smart Large Objects: Invalid smart large object address or ID.

The most likely reason for this error message is that the smart large
object reference being used contains outdated information. The client
application might have passed an invalid smart large object reference to
the server: for example, a reference to a smart large object the
application deleted prior to the current reference attempt. If a smart
large object is deleted and then a new one created in its place, any
references to the old object are no longer valid, because the new object
will have a different ID even if it is stored in the same physical
location.


-12098	Smart Large Objects: Sbspace corrupted.

If this internal error code for access sequence recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-12099	Smart Large Objects: Archiver found a smart large object with a
corrupted header.

The archiver detected a smart large object missing an extent map slot 
or a header slot. The archive process is corrupted.


-12100	Smart Large Objects: A bad value was entered for the sbpage unit.

The page unit must be between 1 and the maximum asynchronous I/O size.
Re-execute the creation command with a correct page unit.


-12101	Smart Large Objects: A bad value was entered for the average
smart-large-object size.

You entered a bad value for avg_lo_size, in kilobytes, during the
creation of an sbspace. Re-execute the creation command with a
correct average smart-large-object size, in kilobytes.

   0 <= Smart Large Object < 2 Terabytes


-12102	Smart Large Objects: A bad Meta Data Area was entered for the
smart large object.

The metadata area received a bad value during the creation of a
smartblob sbspace. Re-execute the creation command with a correct
metadata size:

   0 <= metadata area size < chunk size


-12103	Smart Large Objects: Attempt to open a non-sbspace as an sbspace.

The smartblob subsystem detected an attempt to open a
smart-large-object space when the space specified was really a dbspace
or a blobspace. The application might be attempting to use the
smart-large-object application programming interface on a space that is
not a smart-large-object space. Ensure that you are only using the
smart-large-object commands and interface on a smart-large-object space
and on smart large objects. The smart-large-object API cannot be used
on TEXT and BYTE data types.


-12104	Smart Large Objects: Inconsistent LO map was encountered.

Contact GBase Technical Support.    


-12105	Smart Large Objects: An attempt to change the sbspace name was
made.

In an alter operation, an attempt was made to change the name of the sbspace
for the smart large object. You cannot change an sbspace name with the alter
operation.

Re-execute the alter operation with a NULL sbspace name in the
LO-specification structure or the name of the sbspace in which the smart
large object currently resides.


-12106	Smart Large Objects: Could not find delete Q for transaction.

This error is internal.

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12108	Smart Large Objects: Unknown version.

Server encountered an unknown version during conversion of smart-large-object
metadata. Make sure that you are converting/reverting to a supported version 
of the server.


-12109	Smart Large Objects: Conversion failed.

During conversion/reversion of server, conversion/reversion of sbspace
failed.

Your smart blob space might have been corrupted before conversion.

Run oncheck -cS and oncheck -ce on all sbspaces before conversion.
If an sbspace is corrupt, you might need to restore the sbspace from a
backup before conversion.


-12110	Smart Large Objects: Could not find suitable size extent.

Server could not find a suitable size extent for a smart large object.
A write request might not be complete.

Delete some smart large objects or add a chunk to the sbspace.


-12111	Smart Large Objects: Attempt to write to a smart large object
without closing light IO scan.

The user tried to write to a smart large object that is currently opened for
a lightweight I/O scan.

Close the open smart large object and open it again (without lightweight
I/O) before you write to the smart large object.


-12112	Smart Large Objects: Conversion from using buffers to light IO
not allowed.

The user tried to change the buffering mode of a smart large object from
buffered I/O to lightweight I/O.

This type of conversion is currently not allowed.


-12113	Smart Large Objects: Attempt to convert from using light IO to
buffers while LO is open.

The user tried to alter a smart large object with either ifx_lo_alter()
(ESQL/C) or mi_lo_alter() (DAPI) while some instances of the smart large
object are currently open.

Close all open instances of the smart large object before altering the
buffering mode with ifx_lo_alter() or mi_lo_alter().


-12114	Smart Large Objects: Archive not started.

This error is internal. The smart-large-object subsystem was asked to build
a user-data extent list before the archiving started.


-12115	The LO header page is a wrong length - probably corrupted.

An internal error probably occurred and corrupted the LO header.

Delete and recreate the smart large object or restore the sbspace from
an archive.


-12116	Smart Large Objects: Bad LO header.

LO header read from disk is bad. Refer to log file for LO id. Most likely
sbspace is corrupt. Restore the sbspace from backup.


-12117	Smart Large Objects: Bad LO header (encountered during deletion).

LO header read from disk is bad. Most likely sbspace is corrupt. Run
oncheck -ce on the sbspace. You might need to restore the sbspace
from an archive.


-12118	Smart Large Objects: Bad LO extent map.

The extent map record for the smart large object is corrupt. Most likely
the sbspace is corrupt. Run oncheck -ce on the sbspace. You might need
to restore the sbspace from an archive. 


-12119	Smart Large Objects: reversion of sbspace failed.

The database server reversion you attempted encountered an error during
the reversion of the sbspace.

You can find the reason for this failure in the log file. If the error is
recoverable, retry the reversion. If the error persists, contact GBase Technical Support.


-12120	Smart Large Objects: Duplicate key encountered in sbspace create.

During the creation of an sbspace, it was noticed that the sbspace number
was the same as some other sbspace number. The most common cause of the
problem is failure to create an sbspace in an earlier attempt.

Rebooting the database server will remove the entry from the internal table.


-12121	Smart Large Objects: The sbspace is flagged as dropped.

You are attempting an operation on an sbspace that someone else is trying
to drop. Perhaps they are using a forced drop command. Do not use sbspaces
that are being dropped. The force drop allows you to drop an sbspace that
contains data.


-12122	Smart Large Objects: drop of the sbspace chunk is already
occurring.

You are probably attempting an operation that might be in conflict with 
a chunk drop operation that is already occurring (for example, trying to drop
a chunk when sbspace is being dropped). Retry the operation later.


-12123	Smart Large Object: Metadata is full.

The metadata area in the smart-large-object space has insufficient
storage for a create or write request.

Delete some of the smart large objects or add a chunk with metadata
space to the sbspace. Use the -Ms option of onspaces to add additional
metadata space.


-12124	Smart Large Objects: The archive preimage partition doesn't
exist.

An internal error occurred in the archiver. The preimage partition 
should exist at this point but it does not.

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12125	Smart Large Objects: No more slots in LO header partition.

This is an internal code

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12126	Smart Large Objects: LO is not opened for byte range locking.

A call to one of the byte-range locking functions has attempted to specify a
byte-range lock:

    *   ESQL/C: ifx_lo_lock() or ifx_lo_unlock()

    *   DAPI: mi_lo_lock() or mi_lo_unlock()

The smart large object is currently opened for locking at the whole-object
level.

Close the smart large object, then reopen the smart large object 
with the LO_LOCKRANGE (ESQL/C) or MI_LO_LOCKRANGE (DAPI) lock-mode flag set.


-12127	Smart Large Objects: Invalid range size in byte range
lock / unlock call.

A call to one of the byte-range locking functions specifies a range size that
is invalid:

    *   ESQL/C: ifx_lo_lock() or ifx_lo_unlock()

    *   DAPI: mi_lo_lock() or mi_lo_unlock()

An invalid range size is either a negative value or has the following sum
that results in an INT8 overflow:

    offset + range size

Use a valid range size in the byte-range locking function.


-12128	Smart Large Objects: Invalid offset in byte range lock / unlock
call.

A call to one of the byte-range locking functions specifies an offset that is
invalid:

    *   ESQL/C: ifx_lo_lock() or ifx_lo_unlock()

    *   DAPI: mi_lo_lock() or mi_lo_unlock()

An invalid offset means that the provided combination of (offset, whence)
results in a negative value.

Use a valid (offset, whence) combination in the byte-range locking function.


-12129	Smart Large Objects: Failed to create condition variable in
smart-large-object open call.

The error might be generated when an out-of-memory condition occurs.

Check that you have closed all instances of smart large objects that are no
longer in use. Also check the memory available to ensure that you have
enough.


-12130	Smart Large Objects: Failed to create chunk because someone else
is also creating one.

You tried to create chunks concurrently and had a conflict.

Try to create the chunk again.


-12131	Smart Large Objects: Metadata area in the chunk contains data.

During a chunk drop, the metadata area in the chunk was not empty. The
metadata area must be empty for the chunk to be dropped without dropping
the sbspace. 

Try to empty the metadata area by deleting all the smart large objects in the
chunk. If you do not want the smart large objects, you can also "force" drop
the sbspace. 


-12132	Smart Large Objects: Invalid lock type for lock merge.

This message is an internal error code.

Contact GBase Technical Support to report the error. Try creating the sbspace again.


-12133	Smart Large Objects: During the creation of the sbspace, the desc
partition was not the first in the sbspace.

An internal database server error occurred. The sbspace is likely corrupt
or is not an sbspace.

Contact GBase Technical Support to report the error. Try creating the
sbspace again.


-12134	Smart Large Objects: During creation of the sbspace, the sbspace
desc record was not the first in the partition.

An internal error occurred.

Contact GBase Technical Support to report the error. Try creating the
sbspace again.


-12135	Smart Large Objects: Cannot initialize the smart-large-object
subsystem.

The most likely cause of this error is that you are out of memory.

Increase the amount of available memory.


-12136	Smart Large Objects:  smart-large-object space is valid.

This is an internal code

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12137	Smart Large Objects:  sbspace does not exist.

The sbspace entry has been removed while it was in use. Someone probably 
did a force drop of the sbspace.


-12138	Smart Large Objects: Attempt to open an LO with light I/O and
byte range locking.

At open time, you specified an unsupported combination of options.
Byte-range locking is not supported with light I/O. Check your program
and remove one of the blob open flags (MI_LO_NOBUFFER flag or
MI_LO_LOCKRANGE flag).


-12139	Smart Large Objects: Invalid option. 

An invalid option was specified for changing sbspace characteristics.
Certain characteristics of an sbspace cannot be changed, such as the chunk
offsets.

-12140	Smart Large Objects: Aborted by user.

No changes have been made to the sbspace. Utility aborted by user.


-12141	Smart Large Objects: sbspace is not fully recovered.

You are trying to access a smart large object created in an sbspace 
that is not recovered yet. When the system opens an sbspace, it must be
physically and logically restored before the open attempt.

Wait until the recovery is complete before accessing the smart large object.


-12142	Smart Large Objects: Invalid sbspace number.	

The sbspace ID number you specified is incorrect. It is either out of
range or does not refer to a valid smartblob space.

Correct the sbspace ID number and retry the operation.


-12143	Smart Large Objects: Invalid chunk number.


The chunk number in an LO handle is not valid. Either it is out of range,
or it does not exist. Most likely the LO handle is corrupt.
 
If you are getting this error in an ESQL program, make sure that the LO 
handle is valid. In addition, ensure that you did not force drop the chunk.


-12144	Smart Large Objects: Some space is allocated.

A chunk allocated to an sbspace is not empty. Some of its space is
allocated to either metadata or user data. This error is internal.

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12145	Smart Large Objects: sbspace is not fully recovered.

An attempt was made to archive an sbspace that is not recovered or
consistent. An sbspace must be online and consistent before a backup
is attempted.
 
Wait until the recovery is complete before backup. If the sbspace is online,
check the sbspace using oncheck -cS and oncheck -ce. If it is inconsistent,
you need to restore it from a backup first.


-12146	General Table Manager: No mvkey function provided.

The table manager did not find an mvkey function.


-12148	General Table Manager: No table allocated.

The table has not been created or was deleted.


-12149	General Table Manager: No memory.

Not enough memory was available.


-12150	General Table Manager: Mutex cannot be created.

No mutex (latch) is associated with the buffer, so it cannot be shared.


-12151	General Table Manager: Duplicate keys not allowed.

Table entries with the same key are not allowed.


-12152	General Table Manager: Table is full.

Table is full and cannot be extended.


-12153	General Table Manager: Entry is locked.

Entry of a table is already locked.


-12154	General Table Manager: Table is locked.

Table is already locked.


-12155	General Table Manager: No entry.

The required entry does not exist.


-12156	General Table Manager: Invalid entry specification.

Something in the table entry is incorrect.


-12157	General Table Manager: Invalid data specification.

One or more column values is incorrect.


-12201	Smart Large Objects: Non zero reference count.

You are trying to delete a smart large object whose reference count is not
zero.


-12202	Smart Large Objects: Non zero open count.

You are trying to delete a smart large object whose open count is not
zero.


-12203	Smart Large Objects: Cannot add LO to delete undo queue.

This error is internal.

If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's Guide to acquire
additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-12204	RSAM error: Long transaction detected.

The database server ran out of log space in which to record this
transaction. A transaction that is not fully recorded cannot be rolled
back. To preserve database integrity, the database server ended the current 
operation that caused the long transaction.

Terminate the application and replan it so that it requires less log space
in a transaction. Alternatively, contact the database server administrator
to discuss increasing the number or the size of the logical logs. Be
prepared to talk about the number of rows being updated or inserted and
the size of each row.

-12205	Smart Large Objects: No free disk space for archive preimage
partition.

The database server ran out of space from rootdbs while extending the temp
archive preimage partition.

Add more space to rootdbs and restart the archive.

-12222	Cannot rename dbspace when checkpoint is in 
progress.

You cannot rename a dbspace during a checkpoint.

Retry renaming the dbspace after the checkpoint completes.

-12223	Rename dbspace on HDR secondary.

You cannot rename a dbspace on HDR secondary.

-12224	The partition needs to be archived.

If the table type is altered from non logging to logging, perform a backup
before you use the table in a transaction or modify data within the table.
Otherwise the table may not be fully recovered if the server crashes.

-12226	Cannot add dbspace.

When expanded chunk capacity mode is disabled, a dbspace with page size 
greater than the default page size cannot be added.

-12227	Page size mismatch.

Page size of the partition on tape is different from the page size of the 
target dbspace. Tape might contain a corrupt page (or) if you are executing 
onload command specify the correct DBspace name using the -d argument.


-12230	Cannot create blobspace blob.

You cannot create a blobspace blob on a secondary server.


-12233	Alter in progress on partition.

The partition is being altered. The session could not obtain access
to the requested table or index because it has been opened exclusively
by another user. This condition is normally transient, retry operation
after some delay.


-12234	Partition has been altered.

The partition has been altered and the table's data dictionary has been
marked dirty. DML operations are susceptible to this error when they
are referencing an older copy of the table's data dictionary information.
Most likely, the database server just completed a CREATE/DROP INDEX or
ALTER FRAGMENT operation on the table referred to by the DML operation.

This error is accompanied by SQL Error -710.


-12235	An online fragment operation is in progress on this table.

Only one online operations can be performed on a table at a time.
Wait until the online fragment operation is complete before reissuing another
online command.


-12240	Changed Data Capture: Generic Read Error.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a Changed
Data Capture (CDC) session.  An error has occurred while attempting to read
data.

Monitor the CDC subsystem to determine the cause of the error.


-12241	Changed Data Capture: The attempted operation is not supported.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a Changed
Data Capture (CDC) session.  Among the operations provided by the smart
large object interface, CDC sessions only support read operations, without
seeking.

Do not issue smart large object interface operations other than read on CDC
sessions.


-12242	Changed Data Capture: The CDC session must be closed.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a 
Changed Data Capture (CDC) session.  The CDC session can no longer be read
and must be closed.  The likely cause is an error in the CDC subsystem.

Issue the close operation provided by the Changed Data Capture interface on
the CDC session.  Monitor the CDC subsystem to determine the nature of the
error.


-12243	Changed Data Capture: Read size smaller than minimum allowed.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a Changed
Data Capture (CDC) session.  The amount of data you have requested to be
read from the CDC session is less than the minimum allowed.

Retry the read operation with a larger read size.  The minimum allowed read
size is 128 bytes.


-12244	Changed Data Capture: Object in incorrect state for attempted operation.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a Changed
Data Capture (CDC) session.  The operation on the CDC session encountered
internal structures in an incorrect state.

Report to GBase Technical Support.


-12245	Changed Data Capture: Memory corruption detected.

The smart large object file descriptor you are using refers to a Changed
Data Capture (CDC) session.  The CDC subsystem has detected evidence of
memory corruption.  This is an internal error.

Report to GBase Technical Support.


-12246	Smart large objects: You cannot put a temporary large object into a permanent table

You attempted to take a temporary smart large object and put it into a permanent
table. This large object can disappear leaving the permanent table with an invalid pointer. 
Checking for this behavior is controlled by onconfig parameter SB_CHECK_FOR_TEMP.  


-12247	Smart Large Objects: Processing failed because of an invalid buffer size from the client

The server uses the buffer size provided by the client to process smart large
object data. The buffer size that the client provided is not valid.

ACTION
If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Software
Support.


-12800	Unsuspected internal error.

An inconsistency has been found in the data used to invoke access
method routines.


-12801	An attempt was made to invoke an access_method routine that does not
exist.

An SQL statement has been used that would normally cause a particular
access method routine to be invoked, but the routine is not defined for
that access method. Unless the routine is defined for the corresponding
access method purpose, the SQL statement cannot be used for that access
method.


-12802	Error in initializing an access_method routine execution sequence.

An access_method routine cannot be made ready to execute. For example,
the external name used in the CREATE FUNCTION statement that defined
the access method routine might not exist. Check that the routines used
for the access method are properly defined.


-12803	Error in executing an access_method routine execution sequence.

An error occurred when an attempt was made to execute an access_method
routine. Try the statement again.


-12804	Error indicated by an access_method routine.

An access_method routine returned MI_ERROR.


-12805	Improper return value from access_method routine.

An access_method routine returned a value that is not valid. Possibly a
bug exists in the access_method routine.


-12806	Unable to build row descriptor.

An error occurred in building a row descriptor to be used by an
access_method routine.


-14500	CSS: error <csm-error-number>

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts
information for both the client and the database server.


-14501	CSS: out of memory

Not enough memory to run in this configuration.

Check the system parameters.


-14502	CSS: CSM <csm-name> not found.

Communication Support Services could not locate a Communications Support
Module with the given name.

Check the Communications Support Module definition in the concsm.cfg
file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts file.


-14503	CSS error loading <csm-name>

Communication Support Services failed to load the library that contains a
Communications Support Module.

Check the path name of the CSM library in CSS configuration file, and
Make sure it is a valid shared library.

If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM
vendor and have the following information available: CSS configuration 
files and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database
server.


-14504	CSS: unsupported CSM version <version-number> in <csm-name>

Communication Support Services does not support the version of the
Communications Support Module interface that a given Communications
Support Module uses.

Make sure the database server or client application support the CSM
interface version in question.

If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM
vendor and have the following information available: the version of the
database server or the client SDK.


-14506	CSS: CSM <csm-name>: unexpected return code <error-code>

A Communications Support Module returned an unusual completion status.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts
information for both the client and the database server.


-14507	CSS: cascade disconnected.

For Communications Support Module: the peer disconnected.

If the disconnection seems unexpected and the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the following
information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts information
for both the client and the database server.


-14508	CSS: error getting flags from CSM <csm-name>.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14509	CSS: CSM disconnected inside cascade.

For Communications Support Module: a Communications Support Module inside
the cascade disconnected.

If the disconnection seems unexpected and the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the following
information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts information
for both the client and the database server.


-14510	CSS: null buffer owner

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14511	CSS: init function is not found in library <csm-name>.

A shared library that contains a Communications Support Module does not
export a Communications Support Module initialization function.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14512	CSS: shared library name is not specified.

The CSM library path name in the CSS configuration file is missing, or
there is an error.

Check the CSS configuration file.

If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM 
vendor and have the following information available: CSS configuration 
files and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database
server.


-14513	CSS: CSM cannot finish a service operation.

A Communications Support Module is deadlocked. It requires more data 
without having an adequate data source. This is an internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14551	CSS: CSM: no CSM name specified.

The user did not specify the name of a Communications Support Module 
to be used.

Check the CSM option field in the sqlhosts file, and the CSS
configuration file.


-14562	CSS: no buffer management function provided.

Communication Support Services caller did not provide a buffer management
function in I/O reference context to Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14563	CSS: error writing data.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Failure performing data output.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14564	CSS: no output function provided.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Communication Support Services caller did not provide a data output 
function in I/O reference context to Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14565	CSS: error reading data.

The database server or client's attempt to receive data to establish
Communication Support Services (CSS) context failed.

Probable causes of the error and corrective actions follow:

* This error usually occurs when the CSM option is turned on and the
  database server or the network is very busy, or when too many clients
  are trying to connect to the database server at once. The database 
  server might be taking so long to respond to a client that the client's
  connection request times out before the connection is complete. Or
  possibly a client terminates its connection attempt before the
  connection is completely established.

  Use the environment variable GBASEDBTCONTIME or GBASEDBTCONRETRY, or
  both, on the client side to increase the connection time and the number
  of retry attempts.

* Either the database server or the client application exits abnormally
  due to an error condition. The other side which is waiting for data
  from the failed side would report this error. Check the error on the
  failed side for the root cause of the problem.

  If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM 
  vendor and have the following information available: CSS configuration
  files (concsm.cfg) and sqlhosts information for both the client and the
  database server.


-14566	CSS: no input function provided.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Communication Support Service caller did not provide a buffer management
function in reference context to Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14567	CSS: buffer management function return code <error-code>.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Error while disposing of a data buffer provided by a Communication
Support Services caller.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14571	CSS: null CSS library context.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Communication Support Services caller passed a null library context to
Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14572	CSS: null I/O reference context.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Communication Support Services caller passed a null I/O reference
context to Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14573	SS: bogus iterator direction.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts 
information for both the client and the database server.


-14574	CSS: error processing initialization string: <parameter-string>.

Communication Support Services could not get access to a Communications
Support Module configuration provided by a Communication Support
Services caller.

Check whether concsm.cfg exists. Check the configuration file, and
the CSM option field in the sqlhosts file. If the problem persists,
contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and
have the following information available: CSS configuration file (concsm.cfg)
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14575	CSS: invalid run-time parameters.

There is an error in the CSS configuration file (concsm.cfg).

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file. If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or the
CSM vendor and have the following information available: CSS
configuration files (concsm.cfg) and sqlhosts information for both the
client and the database server.


-14576	CSS: null CSS context.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Communication Support Services caller passed a null context to
Communication Support Services.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg)
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14577	CSS: no registered output buffer owner.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg)
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14578	CSS: null output buffer owner.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14579	CSS: unspecified buffer type.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14581	CSS: CSM descriptor: syntax error.

The Communications Support Module descriptor contains a syntax error.

Check the Communications Support Module descriptor in the concsm.cfg
file. If the problem persists, contact GBase Technical Support or 
the CSM vendor and have the following information available: CSS 
configuration files (concsm.cfg) and sqlhosts information for both 
the client and the database server.


-14582	CSS: CSM descriptor: CSM redefinition.

A Communications Support Module with this name has already been defined.

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file.


-14583	CSS: CSM descriptor: CSM not defined.

The cascade descriptor refers to a Communications Support Module that
is not defined.

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file.


-14584	CSS: CSM descriptor: link method undefined.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14585	CSS: CSM descriptor: unknown error <error-number>

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14586	CSS: CSM descriptor: nameless CSM!

A Communications Support Module descriptor does not specify the
Communications Support Module name.

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file.


-14587	CSS: CSM descriptor <csm-name>: <self-reference>.

Cascade descriptor recursively refers to itself.

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file.


-14588	CSS: CSM descriptor <csm-name>: CSM link type undefined.

Communications Support Module library name is not specified.

Check CSS configuration file, and the CSM option field in the sqlhosts 
file.


-14589	Cannot open <concsm-file> configuration file.

Check whether the CSS configuration file exists.


-14590	CSS: failed to acquire sync object.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.


-14591	CSS: failed to release sync object.

Communication Support Services internal error.

Contact GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor and have the 
following information available: CSS configuration files (concsm.cfg) 
and sqlhosts information for both the client and the database server.
