---
title: 06.Error (-401)-(-500)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:32:42.277Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:18:27.844Z
---

-401	Fetch attempted on NULL cursor.

This FETCH statement passed a cursor data structure that is invalid or
that is a null pointer. Possibly the cursor has been freed with the FREE
statement, or possibly an automatic re-prepare has been attempted while 
opening the cursor but that operation failed, leaving the cursor unavailable,
or possibly the cursor data structure has been overwritten in memory.

Version 5.0 or later database servers do not return this error code.
See errors -267 and -404.


-402	Address of a host variable is NULL.

Review the way the program constructs the sqlda and related data
structures; somehow it is setting up a null pointer. The error might be 
caused by using a row or collection host variable without having executed
the necessary ALLOCATE statement.

If the program is in GBase 4GL or another language in which the sqlda 
is not constructed directly by the program, or if this statement refers only
to host variables by name, this error should not occur. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-403	The size of a received row disagrees with the expected size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-404	The cursor or statement is not available.

One of the following four situations occurred:

You used a statement that names a cursor that was released with the
FREE statement or that was released during a failed automatic re-prepare.
Review the program logic and check that the cursor specified is declared 
and opened, but not freed, prior to reaching this statement.

If the error occurred on a command that specifies a variable rather than a
cursor, the statement was not prepared before you tried to execute it.

The cursor or statement is not available because the connection to the server
does not exist or was lost.

The person who created this table has not granted Update privilege to
your account name or to the public. The owner of the table or the DBA
must grant this privilege before you can update a row in this table.


-405	The Address of a host variable is not properly aligned.

Review the way the program constructs the sqlda and related data
structures; somehow it is setting up a pointer that is not word
aligned. Also, make sure that all host variables are aligned on proper
address boundaries for their types. If the program is in GBase 4GL
or another language in which the programmer has no control over storage
alignments, this error should not occur. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-406	Memory allocation failed.

Something in the current statement required the allocation of memory
for data storage, but the memory was not available. Several things can
cause this error. For example, your application has a memory leak, you
are asking for more resources than the system is configured to allow,
or a problem with UNIX requires that you reboot the system. On a client PC,
if the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable or some GLS file is missing,
a connection attempt fails with this error message.

Rollback the current transaction. Look for ways to make this statement
simpler or move less data. On UNIX, talk with the system administrator
to solve memory problems or to look for ways to make the operating system
give this program more virtual memory in which to run. On Windows, exit
to the operating-system command line, free some disk space, and resubmit
your program. On a client PC, make sure that the GBASEDBTDIR environment
variable is set and that all GLS files are available.


-407	Error number zero received from the sqlexec process.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between the
database server and the library functions that call it. Make sure that your
program software is compatible with the database engine in use. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-408	Invalid message type received from the sqlexec process.
 
This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between the
database server and the library functions that call it. Make sure that
your program software is compatible with the database engine in use.

This error can also occur if the CSM option is enabled on the database
server side but not on the client application side, or vice versa. If you
want to use a CSM, make sure that the CSM option is set in the sqlhosts
file for both the database server and client application.

This error can also occur if the confidentiality option of the CSM is
enabled on the database server side but not on the client application
side, or vice versa. If you want to use the confidentiality option of the
CSM, make sure that the confidentiality option is set for both the
database server and client application. Check your sqlhosts file and CSS
configuration file.

If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-409	Sqlexec was not found or was not executable by the current user.

Your application contacts the database server process while it starts
up. This action uses the value in the SQLEXEC environment variable (for
database server versions prior to 6.0); it should point to one of two
executable files: sqlexec for GBase SE or sqlturbo for
GBase OnLine (versions prior to 6.0). Ordinarily these files will
reside in the lib subdirectory of the directory that the GBASEDBTDIR
environment variable names. Check that your SQLEXEC environment
variable is set up properly and that your account has access to these
directories and files.


-410	Prepare statement failed or was not executed.

This EXECUTE statement refers to a statement id that has not been
prepared. Either no PREPARE statement was done, or one was done but
returned an error code. Review the program logic to ensure that a
statement is prepared and the PREPARE return code is checked. A
negative error code from PREPARE usually reflects an error in the
statement being prepared.


-411	Cannot specify both host variables and descriptor.

This statement has a USING DESCRIPTOR clause, but it also refers to a
cursor that was declared with host variables (that is, with
SELECT...INTO or INSERT using variables in the VALUES clause). The
purpose of both the descriptor structure and host variable names is to
specify the location of the data values, and only one method may be
used. Review the declaration of the cursor, and settle on a single
method of specifying the location of data values.


-412	Command pointer is NULL.

This statement (probably an EXECUTE or DECLARE) refers to a dynamic SQL
statement that has never been prepared or that has been freed. Review
the program logic to ensure that the statement has been prepared, the
PREPARE did not return an error code, and the FREE statement has not
been used to release the statement before this point.


-413	Insert attempted on unopen cursor.

This INSERT statement names a cursor that has never been opened or that
has been closed. Review the program logic, and check that it will open
the cursor before this point and not accidentally close it. An insert
cursor is automatically closed by a COMMIT WORK or ROLLBACK WORK
statement.


-414	Insert attempted on NULL cursor.

This PUT statement specifies a cursor that is invalid. Possibly the
cursor has been freed with the FREE statement, or possibly an automatic 
re-prepare has been attempted while opening the cursor but that operation
failed, leaving the cursor unavailable, or possibly the cursor data 
structure has been overwritten in memory.


-415	Data conversion error.

The database server is unable to convert between a program variable and
a database column. It performs automatic data conversion in many cases
but could not in this case. For instance, a character string will be
converted to a numeric type so long as the string contains the digits
of a valid number, or a float or decimal number will be converted to
integer so long as the receiver has enough precision for the value.
Review this statement, and inspect each program variable that does not
have the same data type as the matching database column.


-416	USING option with open statement is invalid for insert cursor.

This OPEN statement refers to a cursor that was declared for an INSERT
statement. The USING clause of the OPEN is not appropriate in this
case; it is only used to specify the variables that are used with a
SELECT statement. Review the program to ensure that the correct cursor
has been used in this statement. If it has, and if the INSERT statement
is written as part of the DECLARE statement, you can name the host
variables directly in it. If the INSERT statement has been prepared,
you can specify the host variables in a FROM clause in the PUT
statement.


-417	FLUSH can only be used on an insert cursor.

This FLUSH statement refers to a cursor that is associated with a
SELECT statement, not an INSERT statement. FLUSH is only appropriate
with insert cursors. Review the program to ensure that the correct
cursor has been named.


-418	NULL SQLDA descriptor or host variable list encountered.

Review the way the program constructs the sqlda and related data
structures; somehow it is setting up a null pointer. If the program is
in GBase 4GL or another language in which the sqlda is not
constructed directly by the program, or if this statement only refers
to host variables by name, this error should not occur. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-419	SQLDATA pointer in SQLDA or host variable is null.

Review the way the program constructs the sqlda and related data
structures; somehow it is setting up a null pointer. If the program is
in GBase 4GL or another language in which the sqlda is not
constructed directly by the program, or if this statement only refers
to host variables by name, this error should not occur. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-420	Cannot execute remote sqlexec.

Your application program is starting up and trying to make contact with
the database server process in another computer. It does this using the
contents of the SQLHOST environment variable. Check the SQLHOST
variable, and verify that the GBase NET or GBase STAR service has
been started in the other computer.


-421	Unknown service for execution of remote sqlexec.

Your application program is starting up and trying to make contact with
a database server in a different computer. It uses information from the
file /etc/services under the service entry sql, but this file was not
found. Contact the person who installed GBase NET on your system.


-422	Flush attempted on unopen cursor.

This FLUSH statement names a cursor that has never been opened or has
been closed. Review the program logic to ensure that it will open the
cursor before this point and not accidentally close it. An insert
cursor is automatically closed by a COMMIT WORK or ROLLBACK WORK.


-423	A FETCH CURRENT was attempted with no current row.

This FETCH statement asks for the current row, but none exists. Either
the cursor was just opened, or the previous fetch returned an error
code, perhaps because it was at the end of the data. Review the program
logic, and check that it uses a FETCH NEXT statement or other FETCH
operation to establish a current row before it attempts this
statement.


-424	Cursor already declared from this prepared statement.

This DECLARE statement associates a cursor with the name of a prepared
statement. However, another DECLARE statement has already been
executed, and it associates a different cursor with the same statement
id. This action is not supported; a given statement can be associated
with only one cursor. Check all the DECLARE statements in the program,
and check that they all refer to unique statements.

This error message should not appear for Version 5.0 and later.


-425	Database is currently opened by another user.

Another user has opened the requested database in exclusive mode, or
you have more than one connection to the database server. Repeat the
statement after a short delay or when the database is known to be idle.


-426	Unknown values have already been supplied.

This internal error should not occur. If this error recurs, note
all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-427	Bind count routine called with a different count.

This internal error should not occur. If you can find no direct cause
for the error, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-428	Bind routine called too many times.

This internal error should not occur. If you can find no direct cause
for the error, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-429	Indicator variables should be 2-byte integers.

This statement names as an indicator variable, a host variable that was
not declared as a small integer. The value returned to an indicator
variable is a small integer value. Review the statement, especially the
use of host variables as indicator variables. Make sure the names of
indicator variables are spelled correctly and that they are properly
declared. In a 4GL program, this error should not occur. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-430	Type integer does not match size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase 
Technical Support.


-431	Type float does not match size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase 
Technical Support.


-432	Type date does not match size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase 
Technical Support.


-433	Type money does not match size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical
Support.


-434	Type decimal does not match size.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase 
Technical Support.


-435	Time-out value must be -1 or greater.

You provided an incorrect time-out value for your callback
function/routine in GBase ESQL/C or ESQL/COBOL. Check that your
time-out value is -1 or greater.


-436	Call back function must be defined when time-out value is 0 or greater.

You did not provide a callback function with your time-out value. Make
sure that you provide both.


-437	Connection must be established before registering callback function.

You attempted to register a callback function before you connected to a
database server. You must first connect to a database server and then
register your callback function.


-438	Call back function must be NULL if time-out value is -1.

You provided an incorrect value to unregister your callback function.
Pass a null value, not a function pointer, to the callback function.


-439	Database server is currently processing an SQL task.

You attempted to call an SQL routine or attempted to execute an SQL
statement within a signal handling function/routine or a callback
function/procedure. Use only the sqldone() and sqlbreak() library
functions inside your GBase ESQL/C callback function. Use only the
ECO-SQD and ECO-SQB library routines inside your ESQL/COBOL callback
procedure. In addition, if you want to unregister your callback
function in GBase ESQL/C, you can invoke the sqlbreakcallback()
callback registration function within your callback procedure. If you
want to unregister your callback procedure in ESQL/COBOL, you can
invoke the ECO-SQBCB callback registration routine within your callback
procedure.


-440	Cannot update more than one non-GBasedbt DBMS within a
transaction.

In the application, an attempt was made to update data at more than one
target DBMS accessed through a gateway. In a distributed transaction,
at most one target DBMS accessed through a gateway can be updated.

You need to rewrite the application so that it updates at
most one DBMS accessed through a gateway in a single distributed
transaction.


-441	Possible inconsistent data at the target DBMS (%s) due to
an aborted commit.

Distributed commit processing failed due to a communication error,
site failure, gateway failure, or other error with the target DBMS
accessed through the gateway. Updates at all sites participating in
the transaction have been rolled back with the possible exception of
the target DBMS. The target DBMS might have committed its updates if
the failure occurred after the commit message was processed by the
target DBMS.

If the updates on the target DBMS were committed, then the updates
should be rolled back manually. Contact the target DBMS system
administrator.


-442	Cannot grant permission to NULL or empty user name.

The authorization identifier of the users to whom you are granting access
privileges cannot be NULL or empty.


-443	The range specified in the FOR loop cannot have a NULL value: (%s).

The FOR statement in a stored procedure cannot have a NULL value for 
the starting value, the ending value, or the step value of a range.


-444	Cannot use the ALTER TABLE statement to modify the extent size of 
the specified external table.

The size of extents cannot be changed for an external table, which resides 
in an extspace. An extspace refers to a storage location that the GBase 
server does not manage.


-450	Illegal ESQL locator, or uninitialized blob variable in 4GL.

A BYTE or TEXT host variable used in this statement is not valid. If
this is a 4GL program, the variable has not been initialized by use of
the LOCATE statement, or was freed after being located. Review the
program logic to ensure all blob variables are located before use. If
this is ESQL/C, the locator structure is invalid or uninitialized.
Check that all locator structures are allocated and filled in before
use.


-451	Locator buffer size too small.

The locator structure provided for a BYTE or TEXT value in this
statement specifies a memory buffer that is smaller than the value (in
the loc_bufsize field). The actual size is in loc_indicator. No data
was transferred. Revise the program to use a larger buffer, to locate
the value in a file instead of memory, or to pass the value in segments
through a user-provided read function. Alternatively, you can specify
a substring of the value in the SELECT statement. If this is a 4GL
program, this error should not occur. If the error recurs, note
all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-452	'loc_open()' failed.

The loc_open() function provided in the locator structure for a BYTE or
TEXT value in this statement was called and returned a negative return
code. When the value is located using user-supplied functions
(loc_loctype contains LOCUSER), this function is part of the program,
and you have to diagnose its problems yourself. When the value is
located in a file (loc_loctype contains LOCFILE or, in a 4GL program,
the variable has been located in a file), this error indicates that the
system-supplied loc_open() function was not able to open the file.
Possibly the file does not exist, you do not have read permission for
the file, or too many files are open.


-453	'loc_close()' failed.

The loc_close() function provided in the locator structure for a BYTE
or TEXT value in this statement was called and returned a negative
return code. When the value is located using user-supplied functions
(loc_loctype contains LOCUSER), this function is part of the program,
and you have to diagnose its problems yourself. When the value is
located in a file (loc_loctype contains LOCFILE or, in a 4GL program,
the variable has been located in a file), this error indicates that the
system-supplied loc_close() function was not able to close the file.


-454	'loc_read()' failed.

The loc_read() function provided in the locator structure for a BYTE or
TEXT value in this statement was called and returned a negative return
code. When the value is located using user-supplied functions
(loc_loctype contains LOCUSER), this function is part of the program
and you have to diagnose its problems yourself. When the value is
located in a file (loc_loctype contains LOCFILE or, in a 4GL program,
the variable has been located in a file), this error indicates that the
system-supplied loc_read() function was not able to read from the
file.


-455	'loc_write()' failed.

The loc_write() function provided in the locator structure for a BYTE
or TEXT value in this statement was called and returned a negative
return code. When the value is located using user-supplied functions
(loc_loctype contains LOCUSER), this function is part of the program
and you have to diagnose its problems yourself. When the value is
located in a file (loc_loctype contains LOCFILE or, in a 4GL program,
the variable has been located in a file), this error indicates that the
system-supplied loc_write() function was not able to write to the file.
Possibly the disk is full, you do not have write permission for the
disk, or a hardware error occurred.


-456	Indicator value cannot fit in host variable.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstance, and contact GBase 
Technical Support.


-457	Database server terminated unexpectedly.

The database server process or thread with which your application
program was working has terminated. The DBA might have shut the system
down. The next most likely cause is an internal error. Look for
operating-system messages that might give more information. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.

Check the ISAM error code that is returned with this error. If it
is -129, the database server has not terminated but simply reached
a limit on the number of concurrent user sessions (see the explanation
of error -129).


-458	Long transaction aborted.

The database server ran out of log space in which to record this
transaction. A transaction that is not fully recorded cannot be rolled
back. To preserve database integrity, the operating system ended the
transaction and rolled it back automatically. All changes made since
the start of the transaction have been removed. Terminate the
application, and replan it so that it modifies fewer rows per
transaction. Alternatively, contact the database server administrator
to discuss increasing the number or the size of the logical logs. Be
prepared to talk about the number of rows being updated or inserted and
the size of each row.

This error can also occur when a DBA has used FORCE_DDL_EXEC environment 
variable in another session and executes the ALTER FRAGMENT ON TABLE 
statement. In this situation, the ALTER FRAGMENT ON TABLE statement
rolls back any transactions that opened or have locks on the tables 
on which ALTER FRAGMENT is issued.


-459	The database server was shut down.

The database server instance that your application was using has been
shut down by its operator. Your current transaction will be rolled back
automatically when the database server starts up again. Rerun the
application at that time.


-460	Statement length exceeds maximum.

The statement text in this PREPARE, DECLARE, or EXECUTE IMMEDIATE
statement is longer than the database server can handle. The actual
limit differs with different implementations, but it is always
generous, in most cases up to 65,535 characters. Review the program
logic to ensure that an error has not caused it to present a string
that is longer than intended (for example, by overlaying the null
string terminator byte in memory). If the text has the intended length,
revise the program to present fewer statements at a time.


-461	File open error.

The database server could not open a file required to execute this
statement. Sometimes this is a general error, possibly referring to a
message file that the database server cannot find. At other times this
error occurs because the locator (blob) structure field loc_loctype was
set to LOCFNAME, but the database server could not open the file using
the pathname in loc_fname and the flags in loc_oflags. Any of the
following conditions can cause the database server to report this error:

*  An environment variable setting is missing.

*  Not enough disk space is available for opening the file.

*  A file permission problem exists.

*  The limit on the number of open files was reached.

*  The database server could not access a blob of type LOCFNAME.

*  The database server is on a different machine from the client.

*  The statement transfers a value between a file and a BYTE or TEXT
   column.

*  The statement attempts to drop a database when a required file is not
   available.

Make sure your environment variables and file permissions are set
correctly. For more information, check for any accompanying ISAM error
code or operating-system message.


-462	File close error.

This statement reads a value from a BYTE or TEXT column into a file.
The database server copied the data to the file but got an
operating-system error when it closed the file. Check the accompanying
ISAM error code for more information, and look for operating-system
messages. Typical causes include lack of disk space and hardware
errors.


-463	File read error.

This statement writes a value into a BYTE or TEXT column from a file.
The database server got an operating-system error while reading the
file. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information, and
look for operating-system messages.


-464	File write error.

This statement reads a value from a BYTE or TEXT column into a file.The
database server got an operating-system error while writing the data.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information, and look
for operating-system messages. Typical causes include lack of disk
space and hardware errors.


-465	No more memory for locator buffer.

This query returns a BYTE or TEXT value that is located in memory, and
the locator structure asked (by setting -1 in loc_bufsize) that the
database server allocate the memory. It was unable to get the necessary
memory for a buffer. If you can use operating-system methods to
allocate more data space memory to your program, do so and run it
again. Alternatively, locate the value in a file, or use a substring to
select the value in portions. If this is a 4GL program, this error
should not occur. On DOS systems, exit to the operating-system command
line, free some disk space, and resubmit your program. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-466	File length error.

This statement stores a value in a BYTE or TEXT column from a file. The
locator structures specified a length for the data in loc_locsize, but
the database server found end of file before it had read that much
data. Review the program to ensure that the input file was properly
positioned and that the correct length was specified. Specify a length
of -1 if the file should be read to its end. If this is a 4GL program,
this error should not occur. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-467	Indicator object is missing.

This program was compiled with the -icheck flag, and the current SQL
statement did return a truncated or null value, for which an indicator
would normally be set, to a host variable for which no indicator
variable was specified. Revise the program to use indicator variables.


-468	Cannot obtain the user ID from the system. Unable to start the database server.

Your application is trying to open communications to a database server.
As part of this action, it has to read your user ID from the system
password file, and it failed to do this. Look for operating-system
error messages that might give more specific information. Consult with
a system administrator to ensure that the file of user IDs is readable
to all users.


-469	This descriptor does not exist.

The name of the system descriptor area that is specified does not exist
in the list of system descriptor areas, so it has not been allocated.
You must execute the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement to allocate this
descriptor name before you use it.


-470	The value of occurrence must be greater than 0.

If you include the WITH MAX occurrences clause in the ALLOCATE
DESCRIPTOR statement, you must specify a value of occurrences that is
greater than zero. Change the value of occurrences to a positive
integer, and execute the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement again.


-471	An invalid descriptor name has been used.

This error is generated if the name of the SQL descriptor is either an
empty string or an uninitialized host variable. Descriptor names follow
the same naming rules as identifiers. Check the name of the descriptor,
and verify that it has been set with the SET DESCRIPTOR statement,
allocated with the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement, or otherwise
initialized.


-472	Occurrence value is out of range.

Change the value of the COUNT statement so that it is less than or
equal to the occurrences and greater than zero, and try again.


-473	The specified data type is not a X/Open standard type.

This error is generated when a GET DESCRIPTOR or a SET DESCRIPTOR
statement is executed in X/Open mode, and the value for the type field
is not an X/Open standard type. Check the X/Open codes for data types
again, and make sure that the correct type is being used.


-474	Unknown field type.

An unknown field type has been requested. Check that you are using one
of the valid field types in X/Open mode, and try again. The valid field
types are TYPE, LENGTH, PRECISION, SCALE, NULLABLE, INDICATOR, DATA,
and NAME.


-475	In a GET statement, if DATA is null, then INDICATOR must be specified.

This X/Open rule indicates that you must request the INDICATOR value in
the GET DESCRIPTOR statement when DATA is null.


-476	The LENGTH field must be specified when the type is SQLCHAR.

When you use a SET DESCRIPTOR statement, and TYPE is set to SQLCHAR,
the LENGTH field must also be specified and set in the same SET
DESCRIPTOR statement.


-477	Buffer is too small.

In a GET DESCRIPTOR statement, the buffer (the character host variable)
that is specified to store the NAME entry is too small. Increase the
buffer size, and call the GET DESCRIPTOR statement again. This error
message also is displayed when the host variable is a FILE type, and
the buffer used to store its name is too small.


-478	User must specify TYPE.

In the initial state, when you execute a SET DESCRIPTOR statement, you
must specify TYPE as one of the fields to be set. Set the TYPE field in
the SET DESCRIPTOR statement, and execute it again.


-479	The number of DESCRIBED columns is greater than the allocated space.

The number of columns in the table is larger than the allocated
descriptor. Use the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement to reallocate a
larger occurrence value, and try the DESCRIBE statement again.


-480	A descriptor with the same name already exists.

A system descriptor area with the same name has already been allocated,
so this descriptor name is not unique. Change the name of this
descriptor in the ALLOCATE DESCRIPTOR statement so that the descriptor
is unique, and execute the statement again.


-481	Invalid statement name or statement was not prepared.

The statement has not been prepared, or the format of the statement name
is not valid. A valid statement name does not exceed the maximum length,
begins with a letter or underscore, does not contain any blanks or
nonalphanumeric characters except underscores and, in GBase
Server 9.2x or later, dollar-sign characters.

The maximum length for statement names depends on the database server. In
GBase Database Server 9.2x or later, the maximum length is 128 characters.In 
other GBase database servers, the maximum length is 18 characters.


-482	Invalid operation on a non-SCROLL cursor.

You cannot issue a FETCH PRIOR, FETCH FIRST, FETCH LAST, FETCH CURRENT,
FETCH RELATIVE n, or FETCH ABSOLUTE n statement with a non-scroll
cursor. To do so, you must first declare the cursor as a scroll
cursor.


-483	SQL descriptor's name is too long. Limit is 128 characters.

The maximum length for SQL descriptor names depends on the database server.
In GBase Database Server 9.2 or later, the maximum length is 128 characters. In 
other GBase servers, the maximum length is 18 characters.


-484	Statement/cursor's name must be between 1 to 128 characters.

The maximum length for statement and cursor names depends on the database
server. In GBase Server, the maximum length is 128 characters.
In other GBase servers, the maximum length is 18 characters.


-485	Number of host variables does not match SELECT list.

This error can occur only if your database is ANSI compliant. The error
indicates that the number of host variables in an ESQL statement is not
the same as the number of values that the database server returns. In
addition, a warning flag is placed in the third element of the sqlwarn
structure of sqlca.

The execution of the second statement in the following ESQL/C example
returns this error:

$create table mytab (i integer, f float)
$select * into :var1 from mytab; --error

If your database is not ANSI compliant, this and similar statements
complete without error, and the values of the host variables are set in
sequence to their respective returned values. If the number of returned
values is smaller than the number of host variables, the remaining host
variables are undefined. As with an ANSI-compliant database, a warning
flag is placed in the third element of the sqlwarn structure of sqlca.


-486	Illegal data type found during data conversions.

The data type found in the system descriptor sqlvar entry is either
invalid or uninitialized. You cannot use the GET DESCRIPTOR statement
to get a value from an uninitialized sqlvar.


-487	A cursor can only be declared as static or dynamic.

The specified SQL statement requires you to declare a cursor as static
or dynamic. Declare the cursor as static or dynamic, depending on which
type of cursor is required, and retry the specified operation.


-488	Invalid operation on cursor.

An invalid operation has been attempted on a cursor. A cursor declared
for a SELECT statement cannot be used in a PUT statement. Similarly, a
cursor declared for an INSERT statement cannot be used in a FETCH
statement. Check the program, and try again.


-489	Exception number out of bounds.

An exception number was requested that was either less than 1 or
greater than the number of diagnostic entries in the diagnostic area.


-490	Database was created without NLS functionality.

You created a database that lacked NLS functionality.


-491	DBNLS not set (LC_COLLATE must be string_value).

Set the DBNLS environment variable to an appropriate value. Make sure
LC_COLLATE is set to the specified string_value.


-492	LANG or LC_COLLATE environment variable invalid.

You specified an invalid value for a LANG or LC_COLLATE environment
variable.


-493	DBNLS not set (LC_CTYPE must be string_value).

Set the DBNLS environment variable to an appropriate value. Make sure
LC_TYPE is set to the specified string_value.


-494	LANG or LC_CTYPE environment variable invalid.

You specified an invalid value for a LANG or LC_CTYPE environment
variable.


-495	LANG or LC_MONETARY environment variable invalid.

You specified an invalid value for a LANG or LC_MONETARY environment
variable.


-496	LANG or LC_NUMERIC environment variable invalid.

You specified an invalid value for a LANG or LC_NUMERIC environment
variable.


-497	LANG or LC_TIME environment variable invalid.

You specified an invalid value for a LANG or LC_TIME environment
variable.


-498	Bad cixtomsg file. Check installation.

The version of the cixtomsg file, which holds the mapping table of
SQLCODE to SQLSTATE values, is invalid. The cixtomsg file is located
in the directory $GBASEDBTDIR/msg. Check the date and size of the
file. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase
Technical Support.


-499	The operation causes a rowsize to exceed the allowable limit
(32767).

The maximum size of a table record is 32,767 bytes. Check the summary sizes
of all the fields in the table. Make sure that the operation you have
attempted does not lead to exceeding the maximum row size.


-500	Clustered index index-name already exists in the table.

A table may be clustered on only one index at a time. This table is
already clustered on the index whose name is shown. Before you can
cluster on another index, you must execute ALTER INDEX index-name TO
NOT CLUSTER. To see which tables are clustered on which indexes, query
sysindexes and systables as follows:

SELECT tabname, idxname FROM systables T, sysindexes X
        WHERE T.tabid = X.tabid AND X.clustered = 'C'