---
title: 04.Error (-201)-(-300)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:32:01.187Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:13:12.221Z
---

-201	A syntax error has occurred.

This general error message indicates mistakes in the form of an SQL
statement. Look for missing or extra punctuation (such as missing or
extra commas, omission of parentheses around a subquery, and so on),
keywords misspelled (such as VALEUS for VALUES), keywords misused (such
as SET in an INSERT statement or INTO in a subquery), keywords out of
sequence (such as a condition of "value IS NOT" instead of "NOT value
IS"), or a reserved word used as an identifier.

Database servers that provide full NIST compliance do not reserve any
words; queries that work with these database servers might fail and
return error -201 when they are used with earlier versions of GBase
database servers.

The cause of this error might be an attempt to use round-robin syntax with
CREATE INDEX or ALTER FRAGMENT INIT on an index. You cannot use round-robin
indexes.

The error may also occur if an SQL statement uses double quotation marks 
around input strings and the environment variable DELIMIDENT is set. 
If DELIMIDENT is set, strings that are surrounded by double quotation 
marks are regarded as SQL identifiers rather than string literals. For 
more information on the usage of DELIMIDENT, see the GBase Guide to 
SQL: Reference.


-202	An illegal character has been found in the statement.

A character that cannot be interpreted as part of an SQL statement is
embedded in this statement. If a program constructed the statement, the
character might be a nonprinting control character. Make sure the
statement contains only printable ASCII characters, and reexecute it.


-203	An illegal integer has been found in the statement.

Where an integer value is expected, an unacceptable numeric constant
appears. Inspect the statement and look for numbers that should be
integers but that contain a decimal point or the letter e or that are
larger than 2,147,483,647 ((2 to the 31st power) - 1).


-204	An illegal floating point number has been found in the statement.

A numeric constant that is punctuated like a floating-point number
(with a decimal point and/or an exponent starting with e) is
unacceptable. Possibly the exponent is larger than can be processed.


-205	The statement failed because you cannot use ROWID for views with union, 
intersect, minus, aggregates, group by, multiple tables, or derived tables.

The keyword ROWID stands for a virtual column that exists only in
simple tables. This message refers to the ROWID of a table that is
actually a view that is based on a selection involving union/intersect/minus, 
aggregate functions, grouping, a join of two or more tables, or derived 
expressions. Such query products do not have ROWID columns. Therefore this 
view does not have a ROWID, even though it appears to be a table. In order to 
use ROWID in a query, you have to apply the query to the tables that underlie 
the view.


-206	The specified table <table-name> is not in the database.

The database server cannot find a table or view specified in the statement.
The table or view might have been renamed or dropped from the database.

You might also get this message if you omit the keyword "TYPE" when you are
trying to grant USAGE privileges on a user-defined type. For example, the
following GRANT statement is correct:

   GRANT USAGE ON TYPE person_row_type TO usr2;

The following GRANT statement, however, generates error -206:

   GRANT USAGE ON person_row_type TO usr2;

Check the names of tables and views in the statement or check for omission
of the keyword "TYPE" in a GRANT statement. If the names are spelled as you
intended and "TYPE" is not missing, check that you are using the database
you want. To find the names of all tables in the database, query the 
systables table. To find the names of all views, query the sysviews table.


-207	Cannot update cursor declared on more than one table.

The cursor that is used in this statement was declared FOR UPDATE but
with a SELECT statement that joins two or more tables. This action is
not supported; the database server does not know how to distribute
update values across multiple tables. If you declared the SELECT
statement with the cursor, modify either it or the FOR UPDATE clause.
If a program constructed the SELECT statement and associated it with
the cursor dynamically, the program should inform its user not to use a
multitable SELECT statement in this application. (This message occurs
only with Version 4.0 or earlier.)


-207	Cannot declare a SELECT INTO statement FOR UPDATE.

When you declare a cursor, you may not use both the INTO clause and the
FOR UPDATE clause. To use this cursor to update selected rows, omit the
INTO clause. Instead, use an INTO clause on the FETCH statement (or in
4GL, the FOREACH statement).


-208	Memory allocation failed during query processing.

The database server needed to allocate data-space memory in order to
process the query, but none was available. This error may reflect a
hardware limit, an operating-system configuration limit, or a temporary
shortage of space.

Try the query again after a delay. If it still fails, consult your
system administrator. If possible, revise your query to join fewer
tables, to order or group on fewer columns, or to operate in two or
more separate statements. On DOS systems, exit to the operating-system
command line, free some disk space or reduce the complexity of your
program, and resubmit the program.

In versions later than 5.01, only this error message informs you that
the database server is unable to allocate memory.


-209	Incompatible database format.

An obsolete version of the database software built this database.
Convert the database to work with the current software. Use the
dbupdate utility. You will have to run it before you use the data.
(This message is not current since Version 4.0.)


-210	Explicit path name too long.

This statement contains a file pathname that exceeds the maximum length
of 64 characters. Inspect the statement to make sure that the pathname
is that long. It is possible a punctuation error caused other
parts of the statement to be included in the pathname. If this is not
the case, either relocate the file or rename some directories along the 
path with shorter names.


-211	Cannot read system catalog <error-text>.

The database server refers to the tables of the system catalog while it
processes most statements. When it cannot read one of these important
tables, a serious error results. Check the accompanying ISAM error code
for more information. The effect of the error depends on the statement
that is being executed and the particular table, as follows:

    *   CREATE TABLE statement, systabauth not read; the table is
	created, but PUBLIC is not granted authorization as it normally
	is.

    *   DROP TABLE statement, systables not read; no action taken.

    *   DROP TABLE statement, sysviews not read; the table is dropped
	but any views that depended on the table were not automatically
	dropped.

    *   DROP VIEW statement, sysviews not read; no action taken.

    *   DROP INDEX statement, sysindexes or systables not read; no
	action taken.

    *   DROP SYNONYM statement, systables or syssynonyms not read; no
	action taken.

    *   DROP DATABASE statement, systables not read; no action taken.

    *   START DATABASE statement, systables not read; no action taken.

    *   DATABASE statement, systables or sysusers not read; the
	database was not selected (no current database; for subsequent
	operations, see error -349). If this error was accompanied by 
        ISAM error 103, try setting GL_USEGLU=1 in your environment 
        before starting the instance.

Other statements might be partially complete before the error is detected.
Roll back the current transaction and then investigate the cause of the
error. Use the oncheck utility (secheck with GBase SE or oncheck with
GBase OnLine) to check and repair indexes. If necessary, restore the
database from backup and logical-log tapes.


-212	Cannot add index.

This statement attempts to add an index, either explicitly with CREATE
INDEX or implicitly as part of processing a SELECT on multiple
unindexed tables. In any case, some error prevents the index from being
created. For more information, check the accompanying ISAM error code.
Insufficient disk space is a common cause of this problem.


-213	Statement interrupted by user.

The database server received an interrupt signal from the user,
probably because the user pressed the interrupt key (usually Delete or
Control-C). The statement ended early. A program should roll back the
current transaction and terminate gracefully. If the statement could
modify a table, an interactive user should execute the ROLLBACK WORK
statement to remove any partial modifications.


-214	Cannot remove file for table table-name.

The database server cannot completely remove the table. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Problems with
operating-system file permissions, read-only files, or hardware might
cause this error.


-215	Cannot open file for table table-name.

The database server cannot open the operating-system file or files in
which the table is stored. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for
more information. Problems with operating-system file permissions,
insufficient memory, or hardware might cause this error.


-216	Cannot remove index.

The database server cannot completely drop an index. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Problems with
operating-system file permissions, read-only files, or hardware
might cause this error.


-217	Column column-name not found in any table in the query
(or SLV is undefined).

The name appears in the select list or WHERE clause of this query but is
not defined in a table and does not appear as a statement local variable
(SLV) definition. Check that the column name or SLV name and the names of
the selected tables are spelled as you intended.

If all names are spelled correctly, you are not using the right tables,
the database has been changed, or you have not defined the SLV. If the
name not found is a reference to a column, that column might have been
renamed or dropped. If the name not found represents an SLV and you
defined the SLV in the statement, make sure that the SLV definition
appears before all other references to that SLV name.

This error message can also appear during the execution of an ALTER TABLE
statement when the engine tries to update views that depend on the table.


-218	Synonym synonym-name not found.

The synonym is not defined in this database. Check that the name is
spelled as you intended. Check that you are using the right database.
If so, the synonym was probably dropped. Possibly it was dropped
automatically when the table for which it stood was dropped. To display
all defined synonyms, query systables as follows:

SELECT tabname FROM systables WHERE tabtype = 's'


-219	Wildcard matching may not be used with non-character types.

The WHERE clause in this statement includes a test of a noncharacter
column using the LIKE or MATCHES keyword and the special characters
that stand for multiple characters (for example, asterisk and question
mark in MATCHES and percent and underscore with LIKE). Use these tests
only with columns that are defined as CHAR or VARCHAR in the database.
No automatic data conversion is provided. Check that the columns in the
WHERE clause are as you intended. If so, the definition of the table
has probably changed.


-220	There is no FROM clause in the query.

Every SELECT statement must include a FROM clause to name the table or
tables that it queries. Check that FROM was spelled and that no extra
semicolon ends the statement prematurely. To select only a constant, or
to select the only value of a function that is unrelated to any table
(such as USER or TODAY), you nevertheless have to name a table. You can
select a known row from a system catalog, as in this example.

SELECT 'today is', TODAY, 'and I am', USER FROM systables
        WHERE tabid = 100

The tabid value of the first user-defined table in a database is always
100, so this query always returns exactly one row if any tables are
defined. (Version 4.1 and later produce syntax error -201 when the
FROM clause is missing.)


-220	Cannot begin savepoint.

Version 4.1 and later can detect this internal error. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-221	Cannot build temporary file for new table table-name.

The database server cannot create a temporary disk file. The file
should be created in the directory specified by the DBTEMP environment
variable. If DBTEMP is not defined, the database server searches by
default in the root directory for a subdirectory named tmp in which to
create the temporary disk file. Check the accompanying ISAM error code,
and look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information. Possibly your account does not have write permission in
that directory, or the disk might be full. Since Version 5.01,
GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment variable, but
GBase Database Server and GBase Database Server do not.


-222	Cannot write to temporary file for new table table-name.

The database server created a temporary disk file but received an error
while it attempted to write into the file. Check the accompanying ISAM
error code, and look for operating-system messages that might give more
information. On UNIX systems, the file should have been created in the
directory specified by the DBTEMP environment variable (/tmp by
default); on DOS systems, the file should be in the current directory.
Possibly that disk is full, or a hardware error occurred. Since Version
5.01, the GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment
variable, but GBase Database Server and GBase
Server do not.


-223	Duplicate table name table-name in the FROM clause.

The table name appears twice in the list that follows the word FROM.
Review the statement to see if you intended to name some other table
the second time. If you intended to join a table to itself, use a table
alias for the second and subsequent instances of the table. The
following example shows one way to find customers with the same last
name:

SELECT main.lname, main.customer_num, sub.customer_num FROM customer
main, customer sub WHERE main.lname = sub.lname AND main.rowid !=
sub.rowid

When you use table aliases (the words main and sub in the example), the
table may be selected from two or more times.


-224	Cannot open transaction log file.

The database server cannot open the file in which transaction-log
entries are made. No transactions can start until this file is
repaired. (In an ANSI-compliant database, nothing can be done; in other
databases, only queries can be made.) Report this problem to the
database server administrator. For GBase SE database servers, check
the accompanying ISAM error code, and look for operating-system error
messages that might give more information. A START DATABASE statement
specifies the path to the log file. If the file has been deleted, you
can re-create it as an empty file. If the path has changed, you can
issue a new START DATABASE statement to redefine it.


-225	Cannot create file for system catalog table-name.

The database server is trying to create one of the tables for the
system catalog, probably as part of a CREATE DATABASE statement. A
problem with the host operating system prevents it. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information, and look for
operating-system error messages. A shortage of disk space or
operating-system file-access permission problems probably caused this
error.


-226	Cannot create index for system catalog table-name.

The database server is trying to create one of the tables for the
system catalog, probably as part of a CREATE DATABASE statement. It
created the table, but a problem with the host operating system
prevents it from making an index. Check the accompanying ISAM error
code for more information, and look for operating-system error
messages. Insufficient disk space probably caused this error.


-227	DDL operations on ROWID prohibited.

This statement attempts to change the column named ROWID. That column
is a part of every table except a fragmented table. You can select it
with a SELECT statement and compare it in a WHERE clause, but you
cannot alter it with a DDL statement.


-228	UPDATE or INSERT on ROWID prohibited.

This statement names the column ROWID in the list of columns for
insertion or update. The row ID is an intrinsic property that cannot be
modified. You can select it in a SELECT statement and compare it in a
WHERE clause, but you cannot modify its contents.


-229	Could not open or create a temporary file.

The database server cannot create a temporary disk file. The file
should be created in the directory that the DBTEMP environment variable
specifies (or /tmp by default on UNIX systems). Check the accompanying
ISAM error code and look for operating-system error messages that
might give more information. Possibly your account does not have write
permission in that directory, or the disk is full. Since Version 5.01,
the GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment variable,
but GBase Database Server and GBase Database Server do not.

On a UNIX system, try increasing the maximum number of open files
(NFILES parameter on some systems) to approximately 400.


-230	Could not read a temporary file.

The database server created a temporary file in the directory specified
by the DBTEMP environment variable (or /tmp by default on UNIX systems)
but encountered an error when it tried to read the file back. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code, and look for operating-system error
messages that might give more information. Possibly a hardware failure
occurred, or possibly another user erased the temporary file
accidentally. Since Version 5.01, the GBase  SE database server uses
the DBTEMP environment variable, but GBase Database Server and
GBase Database Server do not.


-231	Cannot perform aggregate function with distinct on expression.

This statement selects DISTINCT (expression) within an aggregate
function. This action is not supported. Select the DISTINCT value and
other columns into a temporary table; then select ALL from that table
applying the aggregate function.


-232	A SERIAL column column-name may not be updated.

You cannot alter the contents of a column with the SERIAL or SERIAL8 or
BIGSERIAL data type in the UPDATE statement, even when the updating value 
is zero. (You can specify a value of zero for a serial column when you use 
the INSERT statement; the database server ignores the zero and inserts a 
generated number.) Revise the statement so that only nonserial columns are
updated.


-233	Cannot read record that is locked by another user.

Another user has locked a row that this statement selects. If you
executed the statement interactively, you can do one of two things. You
can wait a short time and reenter the statement. Or you can execute the
statement SET LOCK MODE TO WAIT, after which you will rarely see this
message again.

In a program, you should roll back the current transaction, wait for an
interval of random length, and rerun the transaction. If you run the
transaction with a LOCK MODE of WAIT, you can reduce the frequency of
this error. But it can still arise in some cases, such as when deadlock
is detected. An ISAM error code (-107, -113, -134, -143, -144, or
-154) usually accompanies this error, and a program might need to make
a different response to each of these errors.


-234	Cannot insert into virtual column column-name.

This INSERT statement is directed to a view, not to a real table, and
one of the columns that is defined in the view is actually the value of
an expression. Insertions and updates are not allowed on views that
have such columns. Apply the INSERT to the real table on which the
view is based.


-235	Character column size is too big.

This statement specifies a width for a column of CHAR data type that is
greater than 32,767, or a width for a VARCHAR column that exceeds 32765.
If you need a column of this size, use the TEXT data type, which allows
unlimited lengths. Otherwise, inspect the statement for typographical
errors.


-236	Number of columns in INSERT does not match number of VALUES.

Each column that is named or implied in an INSERT statement must have a
separate value expression. If the statement does not list specific
columns, review the definition of the table for the number of columns
and their data types. Also check that the list of expressions in the
VALUES clause has no extra or missing comma that might result in an
incorrect number of values. Be especially careful of long character
strings and expressions with parentheses.


-237	Cannot begin work.

The database server cannot execute a BEGIN WORK statement. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. A problem probably
exits in accessing the transaction log.


-238	Cannot commit work.

The database server cannot execute a COMMIT WORK statement. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. A problem probably
exists in accessing the transaction log.


-239	Could not insert new row - duplicate value in a UNIQUE INDEX
column.

The row that is being inserted (or being updated to have a new primary key)
contains a duplicate value of some row that already exists, in a column or
columns that are constrained to have unique values. Another cause of this
error might be a locking conflict if the table lock mode is page. The new
or updated row is not inserted.

Roll back the current transaction and execute it again without any
duplicate rows or with the locking conflict resolved.

If you are using repeatable read isolation, then the error could be due
to a unique constraint being violated. Refer to error -268.


-240	Could not delete a row.

The database server cannot finish execution of a DELETE statement. Roll
back the current transaction; then check the accompanying ISAM error
code for more specific information.


-241	Cannot rollback work.

The database server cannot execute a ROLLBACK WORK statement. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. A problem probably
exists in accessing the transaction log.


-242	Could not open database table table-name.

The database server cannot begin reading a table. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. The problem might be
file permissions, a hardware error, or a corrupted system catalog.
Unless the ISAM error code or an operating-system message points to
another cause, run the bcheck or secheck utility to verify file
integrity.


-243	Could not position within a table table-name.

The database server cannot set the file position to a particular row
within the file that represents a table. Check the accompanying ISAM
error code for more information. A hardware error might have occurred,
or the table or index might have been corrupted (truncated). Unless the
ISAM error code or an operating-system message points to another cause, 
run the oncheck utility (secheck with GBase SE or tbcheck with 
GBase OnLine) to check and repair table and index. 


-244	Could not do a physical-order read to fetch next row.

The database server cannot read the disk page that contains a row of a
table. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. A
hardware problem might exist, or the table or index might have been corrupted. 
If the query was using the dirty read isolation level, this error code may be
normal behavior caused by reading data that was in a temporarily inconsistent
state from a concurrent update on the same data.

Unless the ISAM error code or an operating-system message points to another 
cause, run the oncheck utility (secheck with GBase SE or tbcheck with 
GBase OnLine) to check and repair table and index. 


-245	Could not position within a file via an index.

The database server encountered an error when it attempted to look up a
row through an index. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. The table file or the index file might have been
corrupted. Unless the ISAM error code or an operating-system message
points to another cause, run the oncheck utility (secheck with GBase 
SE or tbcheck with GBase OnLine) to check and repair table and index.


-246	Could not do an indexed read to get the next row.

The database server encountered an error when it attempted to look up a
row through an index. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. The table file or the index file might have been
corrupted. Unless the ISAM error code or an operating-system message
points to another cause, run the oncheck utility (secheck with GBase 
SE or tbcheck with GBase OnLine) to check and repair table and index.


-247	Rollforward database failed.

The database server could not apply an audit trail to roll a database
forward. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.


-248	Cannot commit savepoint.

Version 4.1 and later products can detect this internal error. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-249	Virtual column must have explicit name.

When you select INTO TEMP, you are creating a table. As with any table,
the columns of a temporary table must all have names. When you select a
single column, the column in the temporary table receives the same
name. When you select an expression, you must supply a name using a
column alias, as in the following example:

SELECT order_num, ship_date, ship_date + 14 expected
        FROM orders INTO TEMP ord_dates

The temporary table ord_dates has three columns, which are named
order_num, ship_date, and expected. The same principle applies to a
view: each column must have a name. When you select every column of a
view from a table, the view can have the same column names by default.
When you derive any column of a view from an expression, you must give
all the columns explicit names, as in the following example:

CREATE VIEW ord_dates(order_num, ship_date, expected)
        AS SELECT order_num, ship_date, ship_date + 14 FROM orders


-250	Cannot read record from file for update.

The database server cannot get a row of a table prior to update. Check
the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Possibly another
user has locked the row or the table, or possibly a more serious
problem exists.


-251	ORDER BY or GROUP BY column number is too big.

The ORDER BY or GROUP BY clause uses column-sequence numbers, and at
least one of them is larger than the count of columns in the select
list. Check that you entered the clause correctly and that you did not
omit an item from the select list.


-252	Cannot get system information for table.

The database server cannot access system information associated with the
table. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.
Unless the ISAM error code or an operating-system message points to
another cause, run the oncheck utility to verify file integrity.


-253	Identifier length exceeds the maximum allowed by this version
of the server.

An SQL identifier exceeded the maximum number of characters. In GBase
Dynamic Server 9.2x or later, the maximum length for identifiers in SQL
statements is 128 characters. In other GBase servers, the maximum
length for identifiers in SQL statements is 18 characters.

Check that no identifier in the statement is longer than the maximum
length and that no punctuation error, such as a missing space or comma,
combines two identifiers into one.


-254	Too many or too few host variables given.

The number of host variables that you named in the INTO clause of this
statement does not match the number of columns that you referenced in
the statement.

Locate the text of the statement (in a PREPARE or DECLARE statement) and
verify the number of placeholders. Then review the list in the INTO clause
to see which item or items are incorrect.


-255	Not in transaction.

The database server cannot execute this COMMIT WORK or ROLLBACK WORK
statement because no BEGIN WORK was executed to start a transaction.
Because no transaction was started, you cannot end one. Any database
modifications that were made are now permanent; they cannot be rolled
back but do not need to be committed. Review the sequence of SQL
statements to see where the transaction should have started.

This error can occur when you open a cursor for update and have not started
a transaction yet.


-256	Transaction not available.

You cannot begin a transaction in this database because it does not
have a transaction log. In order to support transactions, you must
start a transaction log. Refer to your Administrator's Guide for
information on how to start a transaction log.


-257	System limit on maximum number of statements exceeded, maximum is
count.

The database server can handle only a fixed number of prepared SQL
statements for each user. This limit includes statements that were
prepared with the PREPARE statement and cursors that were declared with
the DECLARE statement. This statement (PREPARE, DECLARE, or PREPARE
IMMEDIATE) exceeds that limit and is not executed. The FREE statement
releases prepared statements. Review the logic of your program, and
change it so that it frees prepared statements when it no longer needs
them.

Version 5.0 and later database servers do not have this restriction.
However, programs that must be compatible with earlier versions should
use FREE to stay under the limit.


-258	System error - invalid statement id received by the sqlexec
process.

The current statement (EXECUTE or OPEN) refers to a prepared SQL
statement or a cursor that does not exist. Possibly the statement id is
invalid, or possibly the statement was prepared and then released with
the FREE statement. Review the program logic to make sure that the
statement or cursor that is named in this statement is valid, has been
properly prepared or declared, and has not been freed prior to this
point.

If the program executes a prepared DATABASE statement successfully, the
database server automatically frees the prepared statement. As a
result, if you free a prepared DATABASE statement, you will receive
this error on the FREE statement. You can ignore it in this case.


-259	Cursor not open.

The current statement refers to a cursor that has not been opened.
Review the logic of the program to see how it failed to execute the
OPEN statement before it reached this point. Statements that end
transactions (COMMIT WORK and ROLLBACK WORK) also close cursors unless
the cursors are declared WITH HOLD.


-260	Cannot execute a SELECT statement that is PREPAREd - must use
cursor.

Although you can prepare a SELECT statement, the only way you can then
execute that SELECT statement is to associate its statement id with a
cursor (use a DECLARE statement) and then open the cursor.

An important exception is the SELECTINTO TEMP statement, which you can
execute. You cannot use it with a cursor.

You can execute other prepared statements with the EXECUTE statement.
If you know the contents of this SELECT statement at the time you are
writing the program, and if you are certain that it will return only a
single row of data, you can embed it in the program. If it must be
prepared dynamically while the program is running, revise your program
to execute it through a cursor.


-261	Cannot create file for table table-name.

In general, the database server cannot create the file that will
represent this table. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. The file would be created in the database.dbs directory
(unless you supplied an IN pathname clause) with GBase SE. Its
filename would begin with the first few letters of table-name,
followed by a 3-digit number and the suffix .dat, or .idx.
With GBase SE, a problem might exist with file permissions, or
possibly the disk is full.

GBase Database Server, GBase Database Server, and GBase OnLine
Dynamic Server allow table fragmentation, which might involve extensive use
of dbspaces. You need to check the dbspace that was specified for the table.
If no dbspace was specified, then the dbspace in which the database was
created is used. For database creation, if no dbspace is specified, then the
rootdbs is used. The specified dbspace might not exist, or the disk might be
full.


-262	There is no current cursor.

This internal error should not occur. Note all the details of the
network software in use and the version number of the database servers
in this and the other host system. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-263	Could not lock row for UPDATE.

This statement, probably a FETCH statement that names a cursor
declared FOR UPDATE, failed because the row it should have fetched
could not be locked. Check the accompanying ISAM error code
(usually -107, -113,-134, -143, -144, or -154) for more information.
Probably another program is using the row (-107) or table (-113). You
can use SET LOCKMODE TO WAIT to eliminate these errors, but detection
of deadlock (-143 or -154) and lock table full (-134) can still occur.


-264	Could not write to a temporary file.

The database server created a temporary file in the directory that the
DBTEMP environment variable (or /tmp by default on UNIX systems)
specifies, but it encountered an error when it tried to write data into
the file. To determine the cause of this error, check the accompanying ISAM
error code and look for operating-system error messages that might give 
more invormation.  Possible causes include: hardware failure, a full
disk, or, if PDQ is enabled, insufficient shared memory.


-265	Load or insert cursors must be run within a transaction.

You attempted to open an insert cursor. This database has a transaction
log. In such a database, you must execute a BEGIN WORK statement
before you open a cursor that is declared with an INSERT statement or
with the FOR UPDATE clause. Revise the logic of your program so that it
starts a transaction before it opens the cursor.

You can ensure that the program also works in databases that do not
have a transaction log. Change the program so that immediately after it
executes the DATABASE statement, it saves the contents of the second
element of the SQLAWARN array of warning flags in the SQL
communications area. This element will contain a space if the database
does not use transactions, and the letter W if it uses them. At each
point where a transaction logically begins or ends, test the saved
value. If it contains W, execute the transaction statement to begin or
end a transaction.


-266	There is no current row for UPDATE/DELETE cursor.

The current statement uses the WHERE CURRENT OF cursor-name clause, but
that cursor has not yet been associated with a current row. Either no
FETCH statement has been executed since it was opened, or the most
recent fetch resulted in an error so that no row was returned. Revise
the logic of the program so that it always successfully fetches a row
before it executes this statement.


-267	The cursor has been previously released and is unavailable.

The FREE statement released the resources that are attached to the
cursor named in this statement, or possibly an automatic re-prepare 
was attempted while opening the cursor and it failed, leaving the cursor
unavailable. Before you can use the cursor, you must again prepare the SQL 
statement that is associated with it. If the cursor was declared FOR a 
statement, re-execute its DECLARE statement. If the cursor was declared FOR 
a statement identifier, execute the PREPARE statement again.


-268	Unique constraint <constraint-name> violated.

During execution of this statement, a duplicate value was introduced
into a column or columns that a unique constraint protects. The row
with the duplicate value was not allowed into the table (not inserted
or not updated). For GBase Database Server, any changes that this statement
made prior to the discovery of the duplicate value have been rolled back. (The
effects of preceding statements in the transaction, if there were any, remain
in effect. They must be explicitly rolled back or committed.)

This error occurs in a logging database. However, if you are using
repeatable read isolation, error -239 will display instead.


-269	Cannot add column column-name that does not accept nulls.

This statement requests a new column that has the NOT NULL constraint.
However, when a column is added to an existing table, null values have
to be installed in the existing rows. Define a new table that includes
this column, then INSERT the data from the old table into it to provide
some suitable nonnull values for this column.


-270	Could not position within a temporary file.

The database server created a temporary file in the directory specified
by the DBTEMP environment variable (or /tmp by default on UNIX systems)
but encountered an error when it tried to position (seek) within it.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code, and look for operating-system
error messages that might give more information. Possibly a hardware
failure occurred, or another user truncated the file. Since Version
5.01, the GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment
variable, but GBase Database Server and GBase Database Server
do not.


-271	Could not insert new row into the table.

This problem has many possible causes, including a locked table or a
full disk. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information.


-272	No SELECT permission for table/column.

The person who created this table has not granted Select privilege to
your account name or to the public for the table or the column. The 
owner of the table or the DBA must grant this privilege before you can 
select data from the table or column.

This error message may also occur if you are using the LOAD command in
DB-Access because DB-Access uses the SELECT command to get information
about a table before loading or inserting rows.


-273	No UPDATE permission for table/column.

The person who created this table has not granted Update privilege to
your account name or to the public for the table or the column. The 
owner of the table or the DBA must grant this privilege before you can 
update a row in this table or update the column.


-274	No DELETE permission for table.

The person who created this table has not granted Delete privilege to
your account name or to the public. The owner of the table or the DBA
must grant this privilege before you can delete a row in this table.


-275	The Insert privilege is required for this operation.

The Insert access privilege on this table or column is not currently
held by your account name, nor by the PUBLIC group, nor by your current
role. The owner of the table or the DBA must grant the Insert privilege
before you can insert a row into this table.

This error is also returned when you attempt to insert a row into a view
that is not updatable. A view is not updatable unless all of the following
conditions are true:
  1.  All of the columns in the view are from a single table.
  2.  No columns in the projection list are aggregate values.
  3.  No UNIQUE or DISTINCT keyword is in the SELECT projection list.
  4.  No GROUP BY clause nor UNION, INTERSECT, or MINUS operator is in the view 
      definition.
  5.  The query selects no calculated values and no literal values.

If only the first condition is false, and you hold the Insert and
Select access privileges on all of the columns in the view, then
you can define on the view an INSTEAD OF trigger whose triggered
action inserts values into the base tables of the view, and use the
trigger to perform the update.


-276	Cursor not found.

The cursor that is named in this statement was not declared in the
current session. The current session runs from the execution of a
DATABASE statement to the next DATABASE or CLOSE DATABASE statement.
Review the logic of the program to see that it executes the DECLARE
statement for this cursor after the DATABASE statement.


-277	UPDATE table table-name is not the same as the cursor table.

This UPDATE WHERE CURRENT OF cursor statement refers to a different
table than the table referenced by the SELECT statement that was
declared with the cursor. Review the program logic to make sure that an
update through a cursor updates only the table that the cursor is
reading. This message also applies to cursor statements that use DELETE
WHERE CURRENT OF.


-278	Cannot rollback savepoint.

This is an internal error. If the error recurs, please note all 
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-279	Cannot grant or revoke database privileges for table or view.

This statement names one or more of the database-level privileges
(CONNECT, RESOURCE, and DBA), but it also uses the ON table-name
clause. A statement that does not mention a particular table (does not
contain the ON clause) must grant or revoke the database-level
privileges. The table-level privileges such as INSERT require an ON
clause. Do not mix the two kinds in the same statement.


-280	A quoted string exceeds 256 bytes.

A character literal in this statement exceeds the maximum length. Check
the punctuation and length of all quoted strings in the statement.
Possibly two missing quotes make a long string out of two short ones.
You must revise the statement to use a shorter character string.


-281	Could not add index to a temporary table.

Check the accompanying ISAM error code to find out the specific
problem, and look for operating-system error messages that might give
more information. Possibly the disk is full.


-282	Found a quote for which there is no matching quote.

Inspect the current statement, examining the punctuation of all quoted
strings. To include the quote character in a literal string, use single
apostrophes as string delimiters, as in the following example:

SELECT '"', fname,'"', "''", lname, "''" FROM customer


-283	Found a non-terminated comment ("{" with no matching "}").

Inspect the current statement, and examine the punctuation of comments
and quoted strings. You can use curly braces to insert comments into
SQL statements, but the braces must balance. Or you can use the
double-hyphen to append comments to the end of a line.


-284	A subquery has returned not exactly one row.

A subquery that is used in an expression in the place of a literal
value must return only a single row and a single column. In this
statement, a subquery has returned more than one row, and the database
server cannot choose which returned value to use in the expression. You
can ensure that a subquery will always return a single row. Use a WHERE
clause that tests for equality on a column that has a unique index. Or
select only an aggregate function. Review the subqueries, and check
that they can return only a single row.

This error can also occur when you use a singleton SELECT statement to
retrieve multiple rows. You must use the DECLARE/OPEN/FETCH series of
statements or the EXECUTE INTO statement to retrieve multiple rows.


-285	Invalid cursor received by sqlexec.

The cursor that this statement uses has not been properly declared or
prepared, or the FREE statement has released it, or an automatic re-prepare
has been attempted while opening the cursor but that operation failed,
leaving the cursor unavailable. Review the program logic to ensure that the
cursor has been declared. If it has, and if the DECLARE statement refers to
a statement identifier, check that the referenced statement has been prepared.


-286	Default value of the primary key column column-name is NULL.

A column that is part of a primary key cannot have null as its default
value.


-287	Cannot add serial column column-name to table.

You cannot add a column of SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL data type to 
an existing table. Such columns may not contain null values, but when 
you add a column, the database server must put null values in all 
existing rows. You can add a serial column in three steps. First, add 
the column with an INTEGER data type. Then update the table with nonnull, 
unique values in each row of the new column. Finally, use ALTER TABLE 
MODIFY to change the data type of the column to SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL.


-288	Table table-name not locked by current user.

This UNLOCK TABLE statement names a table that has not been locked. If
you locked the table earlier, it has already been unlocked. Tables are
unlocked automatically when a transaction ends or when the database is
closed. If another user locked the table, you cannot unlock it.


-289	Cannot lock table table-name in requested mode.

The table is already locked in exclusive mode. You will have to wait
for the table to be unlocked before you proceed.


-290	Cursor not declared with FOR UPDATE clause.

This statement attempts to update with a cursor that was not declared
for update. The database server does not allow this action, as both a
security measure that is designed to prevent program errors and a
performance feature. To use a cursor with the UPDATE or DELETE
statements, you must declare it for update. Review the program logic to
make sure that this statement uses the intended cursor.

In an ANSI-compliant database, any cursor can be used for updating; the
FOR UPDATE clause is not required (and generates a warning).


-291	Cannot change lock mode of table.

The current LOCK TABLE statement cannot be executed because you have
already locked the same table using a different mode (EXCLUSIVE or
SHARE). To change the lock mode, arrange to unlock the table before
you lock it again.


-292	An implied insert column column-name does not accept NULLs.

This INSERT statement does not supply values for all the columns in the
table. At least one of the columns that it omits is constrained to be
not null. Because the database server would have to insert a null value
for every unmentioned column, it cannot perform this insert. Review the
statement against the definition of the table. Possibly the definition
of the table has been changed.


-293	IS [NOT] NULL predicate may be used only with simple
columns.

The test for a null value can be applied only to a column name (not to
a subscripted character column or an expression, for example).

Review the use of these keywords in the WHERE clause and in any CASE
statements.

This message does not apply to 8.21 and later 8.x database servers,
which allow expressions as arguments of the IS [NOT] NULL operator.


-294	The column column-name must be in the GROUP BY list.

In a grouping SELECT, you must list every nonaggregate column in the
GROUP BY clause to ensure that a well-defined value exists for each
selected column in each grouped row. A column contains either a single
aggregate value or a value unique to that group. If a selected column
were neither an aggregate nor in the list, two or more values for that
column might possibly exist in some group, and the database server
could not choose which value to display. Revise the query to include
either the column name or its positional number in the clause.


-295	Referenced and referencing tables have to be in the same database.

Referential constraints cannot cross databases. In other words, both
the referenced and referencing columns (or parent and child keys) must
be in the same database.


-296	Referenced table table-name not available.

The table that is specified in a referential constraint does not
exist or is not accessible. Check the accompanying ISAM error code
for more information.


-297	Cannot find unique constraint or primary key on referenced
table <table_name>.

The database server cannot locate the referenced constraint in the
sysconstraints system catalog table, and the referenced constraint
was not created in the same ALTER TABLE statement as the referencing
constraint. The referenced constraint might not exist, or a foreign key
might refer to a table that has a unique constraint but not a
primary-key constraint.

Check that you have entered a valid column name with the appropriate
constraints that are associated with it. If the referenced table has a
unique constraint but no primary key, you must use the following form of
the REFERENCES clause:

   REFERENCES table_name (column_name)

Valid constraint columns indicate an internal error. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-298	Cannot grant permission to public with grant option.

The clause WITH GRANT OPTION allows the receiver of the grant to grant
the same privilege to others. In this case, the receiver of the grant
is PUBLIC. If this statement were executed, everyone would have the
privilege, and everyone could grant the privilege. This operation is
prohibited. Either name specific grantees, or omit the clause WITH
GRANT OPTION.


-299	Cannot grant permission to self.

This GRANT statement includes your user id as one of the grantees. If
you can grant the privilege, you already have the privilege. Rewrite
the statement to omit your user name from the TO clause.


-300	There are too many GROUP BY columns.

The number of columns that can be listed in the GROUP BY clause is an
implementation limit of the database server. All database servers
support at least eight columns. Review the current statement to ensure
that the punctuation of the GROUP BY clause is correct. If it is as you
intended, you will have to find a way to make this query in two or more
stages. Since you must list all nonaggregate selected columns in the
GROUP BY clause, and the length of the list is restricted, you must
select only the non-aggregate values that are required to distinguish
each group. Put the group results in a temporary table, and join this
table to the original table to select other non-aggregate values.