---
title: 08.Error (-601)-(-700)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:33:20.112Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:22:21.854Z
---

-601	Cannot delete TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement replaces or deletes a BYTE or TEXT value, but some
unexpected error prevented the deletion of the old value. Roll back the
current transaction. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. Possibly a hardware error or data corruption of the
storage space or tblspace occurred. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-602	Cannot open TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement refers to a BYTE or TEXT value, but some unexpected
error prevented locating the value. Roll back the current transaction.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Possibly a
hardware error or data corruption of the storage space or tblspace
occurred. If the error recurs, note all circumstance, and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-603	Cannot close TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement writes a BYTE or TEXT value, but some unexpected error
prevented finishing the creation of the value. Roll back the current
transaction. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. Possibly a hardware error or data corruption of the
storage space or tblspace occurred. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-604	Cannot read TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement refers to a BYTE or TEXT value, but some unexpected
error prevented access to the value. Roll back the current transaction.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information; possibly a
hardware error or data corruption of the storage space or tblspace
occurred. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-605	Cannot write TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement writes a BYTE or TEXT value, but some unexpected error
prevented the creation of the value. Roll back the current transaction.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information; possibly a
hardware error or data corruption of the storage space or tblspace
occurred. One possible cause is that the storage space for this column is
full. Another is that although a new chunk has been assigned to the
storage space, pages cannot be allocated in it until the addition of the
chunk has been logged and the log file closed. The database server
administrator can use the tbmode -l or onmode -l command to force a log
file to be closed. If the error recurs, note all circumstances
and contact GBase Technical Support.


-606	Invalid storage-space name for TEXT or BYTE data.

If this statement refers to a storage space (for example, the CREATE
TABLE statement might create a column with type TEXT IN blobspace-name),
the name is invalid or does not exist. Review the identifiers intended
as storage-space names. If they are spelled as you intended, consult
with the database server administrator to find out whether they exist
and are online. If the statement does not refer to a storage space,
this is an internal error. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-607	Text/Byte subscript error.

This statement refers to a TEXT or BYTE value that uses substring
notation (numbers in square brackets that follow the name). However,
the substring is not correctly written. Review all uses of substrings,
and make sure that the first number in each is greater than zero but
not greater than the length of the value; the second number is not less
than the first; and the numbers are separated by a comma.


-608	Illegal attempt to convert Text/Byte data type.

This statement is written to imply a conversion from a TEXT or BYTE
value to another data type, for example, by combining it with other
types in an expression or by inserting it into a column of another
type. This action is not supported; TEXT and BYTE columns can only be
selected or be copied into other columns of the same type. Check that
the statement names the columns you intended and that they have the
data types you thought.


-609	Illegal attempt to use Text/Byte host variable.

This statement uses a host variable that is a TEXT or BYTE locator
structure but combines it with data of some other type (for instance,
in an expression or by inserting it into a column of another type).
This action is not supported; host variables of these types may only be
used for selecting from, creating, or inserting into columns of the
same type.


-610	Index not allowed on TEXT or BYTE columns.

This CREATE INDEX statement names a column of the TEXT or BYTE type;
however, these types are not supported for indexing. Because no defined
lexical ordering exists for these types, the database server does not
know how to sort or compare them. Therefore it cannot build an inverted
index. Possibly you understand the data well enough to understand how
to extract an ordered set of key values from it. If so, perform the
extraction into a separate column in the same table, and index that
column.


-611	Scroll cursor can't select TEXT or BYTE columns.

The cursor that is named in this statement is associated with a SELECT
statement that returns one or more TEXT or BYTE columns. Also, the
cursor is declared with the SCROLL keyword. This action is not
supported.Rows that are fetched through a scroll cursor are also stored
in a temporary table. Because of the bulk of TEXT and BYTE values,
this action would produce an unacceptable cost in time and disk space.
Revise the declaration of the cursor to select the desired columns of
other types and also the ROWID. After you fetch a row through the
scrolling cursor, use a separate, nonscrolling cursor to fetch the BYTE
or TEXT values, WHERE ROWID=host-var.


-612	TEXT and BYTE columns are not allowed in the "group by" clause.

This SELECT statement selects one or more BYTE or TEXT values and also
specifies those columns in the GROUP BY clause. This action is not
supported. Since no defined lexical order to BYTE or TEXT values
exists, the database server cannot order or compare them. Therefore it
cannot group rows on their values. (This condition is true even of
substrings selected from a BYTE or TEXT column.) Review your SELECT
statement to ensure that the correct columns are named in the GROUP BY
clause.


-613	TEXT and BYTE columns are not allowed in the "distinct" clause.

This statement specifies DISTINCT values, but it also selects a BYTE or
TEXT value. The database server does not know how to compare or order
these values, so it cannot sort them, and it cannot locate duplicate
values. You cannot use the DISTINCT keyword when these data types are
selected. Reword your SELECT statement to either remove the keyword or
select only normal columns.


-614	TEXT and BYTE columns are not allowed in the "order by" clause.

This SELECT statement selects one or more BYTE or TEXT values, and also
specifies those columns in the ORDER BY clause. This action is not
supported. Because no defined lexical order to BYTE or TEXT values
exists, the database server cannot order them. (This is true even of
substrings selected from a BYTE or TEXT column.) Review your SELECT
statement to ensure that he correct columns are named in the ORDER BY
clause.


-615	TEXT and BYTE columns are not allowed in this expression.

This statement uses an aggregate function, such as COUNT, SUM, MIN, MAX, or
AVG, but applies it to a column that has the BYTE or TEXT data type. This
action is not supported.

Review the use of each aggregate function to make sure that it is not applied
to a BYTE or TEXT column.


-616	A TEXT or BYTE subscript is not allowed within this context.

This UPDATE or INSERT statement specifies a subscripted column of BYTE
or TEXT data type as a destination. Subscript notation is not allowed
in this context; a BYTE or TEXT (or any other) value must be replaced
in full. Revise the statement to assign into whole columns.


-617	A TEXT or BYTE data type must be supplied within this context.

This statement assigns a value that is not a simple large object to a BYTE or 
TEXT column or assigns a BYTE or TEXT column to a column that is not a simple 
large object. Neither action is supported. BYTE and TEXT values must be 
assigned as whole units to columns of the same type. Check that the statement 
specifies the columns that you intended.


-618	Error occurred while trying to copy TEXT or BYTE data.

This statement copies a BYTE or TEXT value from one row to another, but
some unexpected error interfered with the operation. Roll back the
current transaction. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information; possibly a hardware error, data corruption of the
storage space or tblspace, or a shortage of disk space exists, or an
invalid storage space was named. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-619	A TEXT or BYTE error has occurred in the front-end application.

This statement transfers a BYTE or TEXT value between the database and
the user program, but something has happened to prevent that. For
example, perhaps it was not possible to allocate a buffer for a value
that was located in memory. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for
more information.


-620	Unable to update next extent size.

This internal error indicates the database server cannot change an
internal data structure (not a system catalog) that is stored in the
root dbspace. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. Possibly corruption of the root dbspace occurred. Have the
database server administrator run the oncheck, onutil, or tbcheck utility.


-621	Unable to update new lock level.

This internal error indicates that the database server is unable to
convert a lock from shared to exclusive. Check the accompanying ISAM
error code for more information. Possibly a hardware error or a problem
with shared memory exists. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-622	Error on locating constraint index index-name.

This internal error shows that the database server is trying to test a
new or updated row for uniqueness under a UNIQUE or PRIMARY KEY
constraint, but the index that implements the constraint cannot be
found. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.
Corruption of the system catalog tables or the root dbspace or a
hardware problem might have occurred. If the error recurs, note
all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-623	Unable to find CONSTRAINT constraint-name.

The constraint specified in this statement cannot be found. Review the
spelling of the name shown. If it is as you intended, check the names
of existing named constraints by querying the sysconstraints table as
shown in the following example. If the owner name shown for the desired
constraint is not yours, you need to be a Database Administrator to
reference it (and, if this database is ANSI compliant, you need to
qualify the name with its owner-name).

SELECT constrname, owner FROM gbasedbt.sysconstraints


-624	Unable to drop CONSTRAINT constraint-name.

This internal error shows that the database server had an unexpected
error while dropping a constraint or the index that implemented it.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Corruption
of the system catalogs or the root dbspace might have occurred, or a
hardware problem might exist. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-625	Constraint name constraint-name already exists.

The constraint name already exists. Review the spelling. If it is as
you intended, you must select another name, or drop and redefine the
existing constraint. See the discussion of error -623 for a way to list
all constraints.


-626	Cannot obtain or set serial value.

This internal error message does not refer to a problem with a SERIAL
or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL column in a table that you defined. The database 
server uses unique integer values for many purposes (for example, the 
table ID number for a new or altered table). An internal error has made 
it impossible to generate a new, unique number. For example, in host 
systems that use files for locking, something might have prevented the 
creation of a lock file. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more 
information.  If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact 
GBase Technical Support.


-627	Cannot prepare coordinator for two-phase commit.

Because the coordinator cannot prepare this GBase STAR two-phase
commit transaction, all participants eventually roll back all work that
is associated with the transaction. No administrative intervention is
required. See the ISAM error for more information about why the
database server could not prepare to commit the local transaction.


-628	Cannot end two-phase commit transaction at coordinator.

The database server acting as coordinator for the transaction cannot
end this GBase STAR two-phase commit transaction, and the
transaction remains open. Eventually, GBase STAR automatic recovery
mechanics will end the transaction. No administrative intervention is
required. See the ISAM error for more information about why the
database server could not end the transaction properly.


-629	Cannot end heuristically rolled back transaction.

The database server acting as coordinator for the transaction cannot
end this GBase STAR two-phase commit transaction, and the
transaction remains open. Eventually, GBase STAR automatic recovery
mechanics will end it. No administrative intervention is required. See
the ISAM error for more information about why the database server could
not end the transaction properly.


-630	Cannot prepare database server server-name for commit.

The specified database server cannot prepare the local transaction
associated with this GBase STAR two-phase commit transaction.
Eventually, all participants roll back all work associated with the
transaction. No administrative intervention is required. See the ISAM
error for more information about why the database server could not
prepare to commit the local transaction.


-631	Cannot create optical cluster on column that is not TEXT or BYTE.

You can only create optical clusters on columns of TEXT or BYTE data
type. The column name is some other type. Check that the column is the
one you meant to specify, and review the definition of the table.


-632	Cannot create optical cluster.

An attempt to create an optical cluster has failed. See the ISAM error
for more information.


-633	Cannot drop optical cluster.

An attempt to drop an optical cluster has failed. See the ISAM error
for more information.


-634	Object does not exist.

You are trying to drop a trigger that does not exist. Check that you
are spelling the name of the trigger correctly. Also, you might query
the systriggers system catalog table to review the names of triggers in
the database.


-635	Not owner of object.

You are trying to drop a database object that you do not own. You might query
the appropriate system catalog table to see who owns the object. (For 
example, for a trigger, query the systriggers table.) You probably need 
to ask the owner of the database object or the database administrator 
to drop the object.


-636	Total size of key fields is too large or there are too many key fields.

You have violated one of the following constraints on the cluster key
that is specified in the ON clause of the CREATE OPTICAL CLUSTER
statement:

    *   The number of columns included in a composite cluster key
	exceeds 16.

    *   The length of a CHARACTER column exceeds 256 bytes.


-637	Cannot alter optical cluster.

An attempt to alter the size of an optical cluster has failed. See the
ISAM error for more information.


-638	Cannot cluster TEXT or BYTE columns on non-optical media.

You can create an optical cluster only on TEXT or BYTE columns that are
stored on optical media. Check that you have not specified the name of
a TEXT or BYTE column that is stored in a storage space.


-639	Cannot cluster TEXT or BYTE columns on different optical families.

All of the TEXT or BYTE columns specified in the FOR clause of the CREATE
OPTICAL CLUSTER statement must belong to the same optical family. Check
that the columns that are specified for an optical cluster do not
belong to different families.


-640	QPlan sanity failure line-number.

Running UPDATE STATISTICS might fix this internal error. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-641	Cannot reserve/release family on non-optical media.

The family name that is specified in the RESERVE or RELEASE statement
must exist on optical media. Check that you have not specified a
storage space with either of these statements.


-642	Family name must be a character string.

The optical family name that is specified in the RESERVE or RELEASE
statement must be either a character string, or a host or procedural
variable that evaluates to a character string. If you specified a
character string, check that you enclosed it in quotes.


-643	Volume must be a number.

The volume argument in the RESERVE or RELEASE statements must be
INTEGER or SMALLINT.


-644	FAMILY(), VOLUME(), and DESCR() require BLOB column on optical medium.

The argument to the FAMILY(), VOLUME(), or DESCR() function must be a
TEXT or BYTE column that is stored on optical media. Check that you
have not specified a column of a different data type or a TEXT or
BYTE column that is stored in a storage space.


-645	Cannot reserve volume.

An attempt to reserve an optical volume with the RESERVE statement has
failed. See the error from the optical subsystem (an error in the -7000
to -7199 range) for more information.


-646	Cannot release volume.

An attempt to release a requested optical volume with the RELEASE
statement has failed. See the error from the optical subsystem (an
error in the -7000 to -7199 range) for more information.


-647	Error evaluating math library function function-name.

The data type of the argument is correct, but the value passed to the
function is not appropriate for the math function. Check that you are
passing a legitimate value to the function.


-648	Cannot open DEBUG file for SPL routine trace.

An error occurred trying to open DEBUG trace file. This error can occur
when one of the directories in the specified debug file name does not
exist, or the directory is write protected. Check that the directory
path is valid and that group gbasedbt can write to the directory.


-649	The debug file name must be a NON-NULL CHAR or VARCHAR.

The argument that is specified for the debug file in the SET DEBUG
statement must be a character data type.


-650	Maximum varchar size has been exceeded.

This statement specifies a VARCHAR(m, r) column with a maximum width m
greater than allowed (32765). Check the punctuation of the column
definition. If it is as you intended, redesign the table to use a
VARCHAR width that ranges from 1 character to 32765 characters.


-651	Reserved column size > maximum column size (varchar).

This statement specifies a VARCHAR(m, r) column with a reserved width r
that is greater than the maximum width m. Check the punctuation of the
column definition. If it is as you intended, revise the statement so
that m is greater than or equal to r.


-652	Local variables do not allow default values.

An attempt was made to define a local variable with a default value.
Only global variables and parameters can have default values.

An example of the error follows:

DEFINE var INT DEFAULT 10; -- error

The correction is as follows:

DEFINE var INT;
LET var = 10;


-653	Variables declared as LIKE cannot be global.

A global variable was defined as LIKE. LIKE variables must be local
variables.

An example of the error follows:

DEFINE GLOBAL var LIKE tab.col; -- error

Correction: Do not use the LIKE keyword with global variables. Instead,
specify the data type explicitly.


-654	Bad use of PROCEDURE declaration type.

The procedure declaration was used either in the parameters or the
RETURNING clause. SPL routines cannot accept or return procedures.

An example of the error follows:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc (proc1 procedure) -- error
        RETURNING procedure; -- error
	...
	END PROCEDURE

Correction: Do not attempt to use the procedure declaration type within
a parameter or the RETURNING clause.


-655	RETURN value count does not match procedure declaration.

The number of values that a procedure was declared to return in the
RETURNING clause does not match the number of values in a RETURN
clause.

An example of the error follows:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc () RETURNING INT, INT;
	...
	RETURN 1,2,3; -- error
	...
	RETURN 1; -- error
        END PROCEDURE

Correction: In this example, return exactly two arguments.


-656	Routine is not declared to return values.

When the routine was declared, it did not contain a RETURNING clause to
indicate that the routine would not return any value, but then a RETURN
statement was found in the body of the routine.

An example of the error follows:

CREATE ROUTINE testproc() DEFINE a INT;
        LET a = 10;
        RETURN a + 1; -- error
        END ROUTINE

Correction: Add a RETURNING clause before the DEFINE statement, or
remove the RETURN statement.


-657	Cannot create a procedure within a procedure.

You cannot have a CREATE PROCEDURE statement within a CREATE PROCEDURE
statement.


-658	Variables declared as GLOBAL require a default value.

A global variable was not given a default value. Global variables
require a default value.

Example of error:

DEFINE GLOBAL glob INT; -- error

Correction:

DEFINE GLOBAL glob INT DEFAULT 10;


-659	INTO TEMP table required for SELECT statement.

A SELECT statement did not specify where to put the returned values.
SELECT statements within a procedure require either an INTO TEMP clause
or an INTO clause that references the appropriate procedural
variables.

Example of error:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc()
	...
	SELECT col1, col2 FROM tab; -- error
        END PROCEDURE

Correction:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc()
	...
	SELECT col1, col2 INTO var1, var2 FROM tab;
        SELECT col1, col2 FROM tab INTO TEMP another_table;
        END PROCEDURE


-660	Loop variable variable-name cannot be modified.

An attempt was made to modify the value of a loop variable in a FOR
statement. Loop variables cannot be modified inside a loop.

Example of error:

FOR i IN (1,2,3,4)
        LET i = i + 1; -- error
        END FOR

Correction: Use another variable in the LET statement.


-661	Number of variables does not match number of values returned.

The number of variables on the left side of a LET statement does not
match the number of values on the right side.

Example of error:

LET a,b = 10,20,39;
LET i,j = proc1()+proc2();
LET a,b = (SELECT c1 FROM tab)

Correction: Match the number of expressions on both sides of the LET
statement.


-662	Loop variable variable-name specified more than once.

A loop variable was used more than once in a FOREACH statement.

Example of error:

FOREACH SELECT col1, col2 INTO var, var FROM tab -- error
	...
	END FOREACH

Correction:

FOREACH SELECT col1, col2 INTO var1, var2 FROM tab
	...
	END FOREACH


-663	You are using more than one procedure-calling syntax for
procedure procedure-name.

While calling a procedure, some of the arguments were named, but others
were not.

Example of error:

LET var = proc (arg1 = 10, 20, arg3 = 30); -- error

Correction:

LET var = proc (arg1 = 10, arg2 = 20, arg3 = 30); --correct
LET var = proc (10,20,30);--correct


-664	Wrong number of arguments to system function function-name.

You have specified an incorrect number of arguments for the function 
function_name. Check that you are passing the correct number of arguments
to the function.


-665	Internal error on semantics - code-number.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-666	Variable variable-name must be declared INTEGER or SMALLINT.

In a FOR statement, loop variables that contain ranges must be declared
to be INT or SMALLINT.

Example of error:

DEFINE var CHAR(10);
FOR var IN (e1, e2 TO e3, e4) -- error
	...
	END FOR;

Correction: Because the FOR statement contains a range operator (the TO
clause), var must be declared as INT or SMALLINT.


-667	Variable variable-name not declared.

The specified variable was not declared. Check the spelling of the
undeclared variable to ensure that it is not causing the error.


-668	The system command cannot be executed or it exited with a non-zero status.

Either a system call failed in the operating system or the command that
was executed exited with a non-zero status.  

The following example shows a statement that might cause the system 
command to fail with an error:

SYSTEM 'hello';

Make sure that the system command is not trying to run a function or program 
that is not in your path or that is not applicable to the environment.

Make sure that you have provided a user ID and password when connecting
to the database server.  The database server must have the user's
password in order to execute a command on behalf of that user.

On Windows platforms, make sure the following Advanced User Rights have
been assigned to user "gbasedbt": Act as part of the operating system;
Increase quotas; Replace a process level token.

The following example shows a statement that will fails with error -668
and the ISAM error explanation '-255 Not in a transaction':

SYSTEM 'exit 255';

-669	Variable variable-name redeclared.

A variable has been declared twice in the same scope. See the GBase
Guide to SQL: Tutorial for an explanation of the scope of procedural 
variables.

This error can also be seen when a DECLARE (or PREPARE) uses identifier
same as one of the declared procedural variables. Choose a different cursor
name or statement id instead.

For example, following DECLARE statement incorrectly uses cursor name same
as procedural variable:

    DEFINE spl_var INTEGER;
    ...
    DECLARE spl_var CURSOR FOR stmt_id1;

Following code fixes the issue in above sample code:

    DEFINE spl_var INTEGER;
    ...
    DECLARE cur_id CURSOR FOR stmt_id1;

-670	Variable variable-name declared as SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL type.

The SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL data type is not a legal procedure type.
Use the INTEGER or INT8 or BIGINT data type to match the SQL SERIAL or
SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL data type.


-671	Routine invocation routine-name has duplicate parameter name.

A routine call named a parameter more than once.

Example of error:

LET var = proc (arg1 = 10, arg2 = 20, arg1 = 30);-- error


-671	Procedure call procedure-name has duplicate parameter name.

A procedure call named a parameter more than once.

Example of error:

LET var = proc (arg1 = 10, arg2 = 20, arg1 = 30);-- error


-672	Invalid data structure execution-tree.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-673	Routine routine-name already exists in database.

You attempted to create a routine that already exists in the database.
If you want to create a new version of the routine, use the DROP
ROUTINE statement to drop the routine before you attempt to create the
new version of the routine.


-674	Routine <routine-name> cannot be resolved.

You called a routine that does not exist in the database, you do not
have permission to execute the routine, or you called the routine
with too few or too many arguments. If a prepared statement invokes a
user-defined routine and your application or another application drops
the routine before the prepared statement is executed, you will
receive this error.

You might also see this error message if you write an expression that
calls an SPL routine (stored procedure) that returns no values. For
an SPL routine to be usable in an expression, the routine must return
a value.

Check that the name of the routine is correct, that you have execute
permission, that you specified the correct number of arguments
to execute a routine, and that the data types for the arguments are
appropriate. For a prepared statement that refers to the routine,
make sure that the routine still exists when you execute the statement.


-675	Illegal SQL statement in SPL routine.

An SQL statement that is not allowed in an SPL routine was executed.
This error occurs when a routine is called from an SQL data
manipulation statement.

Example of error:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc (arg INT, id INT) RETURNING INT;
        UPDATE tab SET col = arg WHERE key = id; -- error
        RETURN id;
        END PROCEDURE;

SELECT col FROM tab WHERE testproc(tab.col, tab.key) = 10;

Do not use statements such as the preceding UPDATE statement in SPL
routines.


-676	Invalid check constraint column.

A check constraint that is specified at the column level can reference
only that column. To specify a check constraint that spans more than
one column, specify the check constraint at the table level. You cannot
create a check constraint for columns across tables.


-677	Check constraint cannot contain subqueries or procedures.

A check constraint cannot contain a subquery or a procedure. Subqueries
are disallowed in check constraints because they depend on the state of
the database. For data integrity, the evaluation of a check constraint
must not vary or depend on the state of the database.

Example of error:

   CREATE TABLE new_stock (
       stock_num   SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
       unit_price  MONEY CHECK (unit_price >=
                   (SELECT unit_price FROM stock WHERE manu_code = 'HRO')),
       manu_code   CHAR(3));

Verify that your statement does not have a subquery or procedure in a
check constraint.


-678	Invalid subscript for column column-name in check constraint.

A subscripted column in a check constraint has subscripts outside the
bounds of the column. Check that the bounds specified in the
subscripted column do not exceed the maximum length of the column. If
you know the table name of the column, use the following subquery to
query the system-catalog tables to find out the maximum length of the
column:

SELECT collength FROM syscolumns WHERE colname = 'column-name'
        AND tabid = (SELECT tabid FROM systables
           WHERE tabname = 'table-name')


-679	Cannot read constraint violation data for constraint constraint-name.

See the ISAM error for more information. If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-680	Cannot write constraint violation data for constraint constraint-name.

See the ISAM error for more information. If this internal error recurs,
pase note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-681	Column specified more than once in the INSERT list.

The error occurs if the user specifies a column name more than once in
the INSERT column list.


-682	Error reading constraint index on table table-name.

The system was unable to validate the constraint. See the ISAM error
for more information. If this internal error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-683	Specified STEP expression will not traverse RANGE.

The evaluated value of the STEP expression in the FOR statement will
lead to an infinite loop.

Example of error:

   FOR i = 10 TO 20
           STEP -1; -- error
                ...
           END FOR

Correction: Correct either the range or the step expressions so that
the incremented values are within the range.


-684	Function <routine-name> returns too many values.

The number of returned values from a function is more than the number
of values that the caller expects.

Example of error:

   CREATE ROUTINE testroutine(arg INT) RETURNING INT, INT;
           RETURN 1,2;
           END ROUTINE

   SELECT col FROM tab WHERE col = testroutine(1); -- error


-685	Function <function-name> returns too few values.

The number of returned values from a function is less than the number
of values that the caller expects.

Example of error:

   CREATE ROUTINE testroutine (arg INT) RETURNING INT, INT;
           RETURN 1,2;
           END ROUTINE

   UPDATE tab SET (c1, c2, c3) = (testroutine(1)); -- error


-686	Function <function-name> has returned more than one row.

A function returned more than one row of values (for example, it
executed RETURN...WITH RESUME) when the caller expected only one row of
values.

Example of error:

   CREATE FUNCTION testroutine (limit INT) RETURNING INT;
           DEFINE i INT;
           FOR i IN (1 TO limit)
               RETURN i WITH RESUME;
           END FOR
           END FUNCTION;

   CREATE FUNCTION gettest() RETURNING INT;
           DEFINE var INT;
           LET var = testroutine (10); -- error
           RETURN var;
           END FUNCTION;


-687	Set debug file before tracing SPL routines.

A TRACE statement was executed before a SET DEBUG FILE statement. The
destination of the output of the TRACE statement is unknown. This error can
also apply to the TRACE OFF statement. 

Example of error:

    TRACE procedure; -- error

Correction:

    SET DEBUG FILE TO 'trace.out';
    TRACE procedure;


-688	Variable variable-name must be declared CHAR or VARCHAR.

You declared the variable as a data type other than CHAR or VARCHAR.
Correct the declaration, and try again.


-689	Global variable variable-name declared inconsistently.

Two or more procedures were executed that defined the same global
variable with different data types.

Example of error:

CREATE PROCEDURE test1()
        DEFINE GLOBAL glob INT DEFAULT 10;
	...
	END PROCEDURE

CREATE PROCEDURE test2()
        DEFINE GLOBAL glob CHAR (9) DEFAULT USER;
	...
	END PROCEDURE

Correction: Declare global variables consistently. (Using appropriate
naming conventions would be useful.) Two variables of the same data
type but different lengths are considered inconsistent.


-690	Cannot read keys from referencing table table-name.

The referential constraint could not be validated. See the ISAM error
for more information. If you are using cascading deletes, database
logging must be on.


-691	Missing key in referenced table for referential constraint
constraint-name.

A referential constraint has been violated. This condition usually
occurs when you are trying to insert a value into or update the value
of a column that is part of a referential constraint. The value you are
trying to enter does not exist in the referenced (parent-key)
column. If you are using cascading deletes, database logging must be
on.


-692	Key value for constraint constraint-name is still being referenced.

You have violated a referential constraint. This situation usually
occurs when you are trying to delete a row in a column (parent key)
that another row (child key) is referencing. If you are using cascading
deletes, database logging must be on.


-693	System command expects a non-null value.

A null value was passed to the SYSTEM statement.

Example of error:

DEFINE c CHAR(100);
        LET c = NULL;
	...
	SYSTEM c; -- error


-694	Too many arguments passed to procedure procedure-name.

More arguments were passed to a procedure than a procedure was declared
to accept.


-695	Argument is not a parameter of procedure procedure-name.

A named parameter was passed to a procedure, but the named parameter
does not exist.

Example of error:

CREATE PROCEDURE testproc (arg1 INT, arg2 INT) RETURNING INT;
	...
	RETURN 1;
        END PROCEDURE

SELECT col FROM tab WHERE testproc (arg1 = 10, arg5 = 20); -- error


-696	Variable variable-name has undefined value.

An SPL variable was referenced or a row field was set before 
a value was assigned.

Example of error:

DEFINE my_row_var1 (last_name CHAR(20), id INTEGER);
DEFINE i, j INT; 

LET i = j + 1;                -- error
LET my_row_var1.id = new_id;  -- error

While

LET my_row_var1 = ROW(NULL::CHAR(20), NULL::INTEGER)::person_rt;
LET my_row_var1.id = new_id;  -- success

Correction: Assign all variables and parameters valid values before
you use them.

Row type variables are allowed in SPL routines. Such
variables must be initialized before they are used. To initialize
a row type variable, you must initialize the entire variable.
Initializing each field will not substitute for initializing the
entire variable, and in fact you cannot initialize the individual
fields until after you have initialized the entire variable. The
following example shows correct and incorrect initialization of
row type variables in SPL.  

-- Example showing that row type variables in SPL must have the entire
-- variable initialized. It is not sufficient to initialize the fields
-- without initializing the entire variable.
 
   CREATE DATABASE tango;

   drop table table1;
   drop row type person_rt restrict;
   drop function create_person_rt;
   
   CREATE ROW TYPE person_rt (last_name CHAR(20), id INTEGER);
   
   CREATE FUNCTION create_person_rt(new_name CHAR(20), new_id INTEGER)
   RETURNING person_rt;
   DEFINE my_row_var1 person_rt;
   -- You cannot initialize the individual fields of the variable until you
   -- have initialized the entire variable. If the following statement were 
   -- executed at this point, it would fail with error -696.
   -- LET my_row_var1.id = new_id;   
   -- Initialize the entire variable.
   LET my_row_var1 = ROW(NULL::CHAR(20), NULL::INTEGER)::person_rt;
   -- Now set the individual fields.
   LET my_row_var1.id = new_id;
   LET my_row_var1.last_name = new_name;  
   RETURN my_row_var1;
   END FUNCTION;
    
-- Sample usage:
 
   CREATE TABLE table1 (person_column person_rt);
   INSERT INTO table1 (person_column) VALUES (create_person_rt('Uhuru', 128));
    
   CLOSE DATABASE;
 
   You must initialize the entire variable because the engine can
   track whether or not the entire variable has been initialized
   but cannot track initialization on a field-by-field basis.


-697	STEP expression evaluated to ZERO.

The STEP expression of a FOR statement evaluated to zero.

Example of error:

LET e = -1;
FOR i = 10 TO 20
        STEP e+1; -- error
        ...
        END FOR

Correction: Change the STEP expression so that it evaluates to a
nonzero value.


-698	Inconsistent transaction. Number and names of servers rolled
back - servers.

This message is returned if an GBase STAR two-phase commit or a
distributed transaction is implemented with a mixed result. That is,
some database servers participating in the transaction rolled back
their parts of the global transaction, but other database servers
committed their parts of the global transaction. The number of database
servers that rolled back work is always accurate, but the list of
server names (specified by DBSERVERNAME values) can be incomplete. If a
large number of servers rolled back work, the list might be truncated
to save space. Refer to the message log of the coordinator database
server for a complete list of server names. If this error message is
returned, you must determine whether your networked database system is
in an inconsistent state. This procedure is described in detail in your
Administrator's Guide.


-699	Transaction heuristically rolled back.

This message is returned if all participating database servers
heuristically roll back an GBase STAR two-phase commit transaction.
Because all database servers rolled back the transaction, the networked
database system remains consistent.


-700	Statement is invalid within a global transaction.

This error is generated when a user attempts to execute a BEGIN WORK,
COMMIT WORK, or ROLLBACK WORK statement within a global transaction.


-701	Statement is invalid within the XA environment.

This error is generated when you attempt to execute any of the
following statements within an X/Open distributed
transaction-processing environment:

    *   CLOSE DATABASE

    *   CREATE DATABASE

    *   DROP DATABASE

    *   SET LOG

    *   SAVEPOINT

    *   RELEASE SAVEPOINT

    *   ROLLBACK TO SAVEPOINT

Within this environment, you can execute a single DATABASE statement
after an xa_open call to specify a current database. However, after
this database is selected, no other DATABASE statement can be executed.
This error is generated when you attempt to execute a second DATABASE
statement.
