---
title: 10.Error (-801)-(-900)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:25:20.701Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:25:18.778Z
---

-801	SQL Edit buffer is full.

The text editor cannot expand the buffer in which it stores your SQL
statements because no more data space memory is available. If you have
multiple statements in the buffer, execute them one at a time.


-802	Cannot open file for run.

The SQL command file that you specified cannot be opened for reading.
Review the filename that you specified. If it is spelled as you
intended, check that it exists in the current directory or in a
directory that is named in the DBPATH environment variable and that
your account has read permission for it.


-803	The file is too large for internal editing.

The SQL command file that you selected with the Choose option is too
large for the edit buffer to hold. The size of the edit buffer is
dynamic, and the program was unable to allocate enough memory to hold
the contents of the command file. (In DOS, this error also appears if
the command file exceeds 64 kilobytes.) Check that you specified the
file you intended and that it is in fact an SQL command file. If it is
the file that you intended, break it into smaller parts, and use them
separately.


-804	Comment has no end.

This statement includes a comment that is enclosed in braces ({ }), but
the closing brace is missing. Review the punctuation of the statement,
and check that all braces appear in matching pairs.


-805	Cannot open file for load.

The input file that is specified in this LOAD statement could not be
opened. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.
Possibly a more complete pathname is needed, the file does not exist,
or your account does not have read permission for the file or a
directory in which it resides.


-806	Cannot open file for unload.

The output file that is specified in this UNLOAD statement could not be
opened. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.
Possibly a more complete pathname is needed; the file exists, but your
account does not have write permission for it; or the disk is full.


-807	Cannot open file for output.

The program cannot create the file that you specified with the Save
option. The file should be saved in the current directory. Possibly
your account does not have write permission in that directory. Possibly
a read-only file of the same name exists (to eliminate this
possibility, try to save the file under a different name). Possibly the
disk is full. Look for operating-system error messages that might give
more information.


-808	Cannot open file for choose.

The SQL command file that you specified for the Choose menu option
cannot be opened for input. Check that the file is in the current
directory and readable to your account.


-809	SQL Syntax error has occurred.

The INSERT statement in this LOAD/UNLOAD/INFO statement has invalid syntax.
Review it for punctuation and use of keywords.


-810	Cannot open file for save.

The SQL command file could not be saved. Check that your account has
operating-system permission to write in the current directory and that
the disk is not full.


-811	Cannot open printer for output.

The application is trying to open the device that is specified in the
DBPRINT environment variable but is failing. Check the setting of that
variable, and rerun the program.


-812	Cannot open pipe for output.

Under the Output option, you selected To-pipe and specified a program
or command to receive the output. However, GBase SQL was unable to
open the pipe to that program or command. Review the program or command
that you typed to ensure that it is a syntactically valid UNIX or DOS
command and that it names only programs that are in your current
execution path. Also look for operating-system error messages; you
might have exceeded a system quota on memory or processes.


-813	Cannot write to pipe for output (no reading process).

Under the Output option, you sent output to a command or program
through a pipe. Although the pipe was established (indicating that the
command had correct syntax and named existing programs), it has since
closed unexpectedly. This condition indicates that the (first) program
in the pipe terminated before it had received all the output. Possibly
it quit due to an error, or possibly you or another user terminated it
with a kill command. Look for messages from the pipe program that
might explain why it quit.


-816	Cannot write file (check file permissions).

The file that is specified in the prior command cannot be written.
Probably your account does not have operating-system permission to
write to the file. Check the permissions, and run the program again.


-817	Cannot read file (check file permissions).

The file that is specified in the prior command cannot be read.
Probably your account does not have operating-system permission to read
the file. Check the permissions, and run the program again.


-818	Specified user menu not found.

The user menu that was requested cannot be found. Check the spelling of
the menu name. If it is as you intended, check the contents of the
sysmenus table in the current database; the menu might not be defined
in this database.


-819	There are no menu items in the menu.

The menu that you selected contains no items. You can choose a
different menu or modify the current one. If you think that the menu
should have items, check the contents of the sysmenuitems table in the
current database.


-820	No more data to display.

The display of selected rows is finished. With no scrolling display,
you cannot show the rows again. Restart the query from the beginning,
or enter a new query.


-821	Cannot open file for default report.

You requested creation of a default-report specification. This file is
saved in the current directory, but some problem prevented it. Possibly
the disk is full, or possibly your account does not have
operating-system permission to write in that location.


-822	Statements are already saved.

The current SQL statement has already been saved under the name that is
shown at the top of the screen. (This message does not appear to occur
any longer.)


-823	There are no statements to run.

You selected the Run option, but no SQL statement has been entered.
Either enter a statement, or use Choose to load one.


-824	Missing values clause on insert statement.

Probably no current GBase product returns this message. If this
message does appear, refer to the discussion of error -836. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-825	Program not found.

No supporting executable file could be located. The file should have
existed in the directory that the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable
names. Consult the person who installed the GBase software.


-826	Fork system call failed.

This internal error indicates an inability to start a subordinate
process. Possibly it stems from an attempt to enter vi from DB-Access
when using the Use-editor option. Look for operating-system error
messages that might give more information. Retry the operation. If the
error recurs, contact your system administrator. In DOS systems, you
probably are out of memory; exit to the operating-system command line,
and resubmit your program.


-827	Database not found.

See the discussion of error -329.


-828	Command file not found.

The SQL command file that you specified is not found in the current
directory or in the directory that is listed in the DBPATH environment
variable. Check the spelling of the name and the setting of DBPATH.


-829	Form not found.

The compiled form specification that you specified is not found in the
current directory or in the directory that is listed in the DBPATH
environment variable. Check the spelling of the name and the setting of
DBPATH.


-830	Report not found.

The compiled report specification that you specified is not found in
the current directory or in the directory that is listed in the DBPATH
environment variable. Check the spelling of the name and the setting of
DBPATH.


-831	Error found in Report specifications.

One or more errors was found during compilation of the report
specification. Edit the report-specification file, and compile it
again. Follow the prompts to see the error messages. To look them up,
use the finderr utility.


-832	Error found in Form specifications.

One or more errors was found during compilation of the report
specification. Edit the report specification file, and compile it
again. Follow the prompts to see the error messages. To look them up,
use the finderr utility.


-833	Saceprep could not compile Report.

The report compiler, saceprep, encountered an error while it was
compiling a report specification. Look for other error messages, from
saceprep and the operating system, that might give more information.


-834	Sformbld could not compile Form.

The report compiler, sformbld, encountered an error while it was
compiling a report specification. Look for other error messages, from
sformbld and the operating system, that might give more information.


-835	Current clause is invalid in interactive mode.

The WHERE CURRENT OF clause is meaningful only in a program that uses a
cursor to read rows. In this interactive context, you must specify a
condition other than CURRENT in your WHERE clause.


-836	Insert statement has no values clause.

The INSERT statement that was entered as part of this LOAD statement
requires a VALUES clause. Revise the statement to include one.


-837	There is not enough memory available.

GBase SQL needed to allocate memory for one of a number of small
work areas but was not able to do so. Stop the program, and restart it.
If this action does not eliminate the problem, see your system
administrator about getting more memory. On DOS systems, you need to
free some disk space.

Database servers after Version 4.1 do not produce this error message.
For a related error, see error message -208.


-838	A line in the load file is too long.

Each line of the input file to LOAD must be read into storage in full
to be processed. GBase SQL resizes its memory buffer as required to
hold the current line. But in this case, it was not able to allocate a
large enough buffer. This error is most likely when the load file
contains TEXT or BYTE data values or very large CHAR values. All of the
values for one row must be contained in one line of the file. If you
cannot rerun the program with more memory available, modify the input
file to have fewer or shorter values in each row. Or use the dbload
utility to try to load the file.


-839	Table not found.

You specified the name of a table that does not exist in the current
database. Review the spelling of the table name, and check that you
are using the correct database. Refer to the discussion of error -310
for a way to display all table names.


-840	Name is too long.

Names of databases, reports, forms, and other files must be 10
characters or shorter. Select a new, shorter name, and repeat this
operation. In DOS systems, filenames can be a maximum of 8 characters
plus a 3-character extension.


-841	Name must start with a letter or "_" and contain letters, digits,
or "_".

Names of databases, reports, forms, and other files must conform to
this rule. Repeat this operation with a name that conforms to the
rule. Beginning with Version 6.0, the name of the following
identifiers, as well as server and cursor names, can begin with an
underscore: column, connection, constraint, database, index, procedure,
synonym, table, trigger, and view.


-842	Cannot read temp file.

GBase SQL created a temporary file; now it is trying to read back
the temporary file. However, it received an unexpected operating-system
return code. Possibly you or another user removed the file, or possibly
a hardware error occurred.


-843	Cannot write temp file.

GBase SQL is trying to write the current SQL source file into a
temporary file for editing but received an unexpected operating-system
return code. Look for operating-system error messages that might give
more information. On UNIX systems, possibly your account does not have
write access to /tmp or the directory that is named in the DBTEMP
environment variable, or the disk might be full. With Version 5.01 and
later, the GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment
variable, but GBase Database Server and GBase Database Server 
do not.


-844	Statement is too long -- out of memory.

GBase SQL was unable to allocate a memory buffer large enough to
hold this statement. Find a way to shorten the statement, or run it in
two or more parts.


-845	There are no user-menus in the database.

This database does not contain the sysmenus table, it is empty, or
possibly the top-level menu is not named main. Check that you are using
the database you intended. Consult with the person who defined the user
menus for this database.


-846	Number of values in load file is not equal to number of columns.

The LOAD processor counts the delimiters in the first line of the file
to determine the number of values in the load file. One delimiter must
exist for each column in the table or for each column in the list of
columns if one is specified. Check that you specified the file that you
intended and that it uses the correct delimiter character. An empty line
in the text can also cause this error.

If the LOAD statement does not specify a delimiter, verify that the default
delimiter matches the delimiter that is used in the file. If you are in
doubt about the default delimiter, specify the delimiter in the LOAD
statement.


-847	Error in load file row number.

A problem exists with the data on the indicated row of the load data
file. The operation stopped after it inserted rows up to but not
including the row that is noted (number-1 rows have been inserted). If
this operation is inside a transaction, roll back the transaction. If
not, either delete the inserted rows from the table or remove the used
rows from the file before you repeat the operation. To correct the
file, look for additional error messages that might help isolate the
problem. Possibly not enough, or too many, fields (delimiters) exist on
the indicated row. Possibly a data conversion problem exists, (for
example, nonnumeric characters in a numeric field, an improperly
formatted DATETIME value, or a character string that is too long).
Possibly a null (zero-length) field exists in a column where nulls are
not allowed. Edit the load file to correct the problem. Look for
similar problems in following lines, and then repeat the operation.
The row number and line number might not be the same because some rows
might be split into several lines. To identify split rows and their
corresponding line numbers, run the following command:

egrep -n"\\\\$" 

To calculate a line number of an incorrect row, add the number of split
rows that occur prior to the row to the row number.


-848	Form4gl could not compile Form.

You asked for a form specification to be compiled, but the form
compiler reported one or more errors. Correct the errors in the form
specification, and repeat the operation. The error messages are in the
formname.err file.


-849	Warning found in Form specifications.

You asked for a form specification to be compiled, and it was done, but
the form compiler reported one or more warnings. You are not required
to correct a warning before you try the form, but it is recommended
it. The error messages are in the formname.err file.


-850	User does not have permission to modify this menu.

Only the user who created the sysmenus table in this database can
modify the menu structure. That user first selected the Modify option
of the User-Menu display while this database was current. To determine
who that user is, query systables as follows:

SELECT owner FROM systables WHERE tabname LIKE 'sysmenu*'

If this action is not appropriate, ask that person to drop the sysmenus
and sysmenuitems tables, and then have the person who should maintain
the menus re-create them.


-851	Cannot drop file (check file permissions).

You requested that a file be dropped, but it could not be dropped,
probably because your account does not have write permissions on it or
on the directory in which it is stored. Use operating-system commands
to check the file permissions.


-852	Write failed. count rows unloaded (check ulimit or disk space).

After writing count lines of output to the unload file, an error
occurred trying to write the next line. Look for operating-system
messages that might give more information. Possible causes include a
full disk or a disk quota limit.


-853	Current transaction has been rolled back due to error or missing
COMMIT WORK.

While GBase SQL was executing SQL statements from a command file, it
received an error return code or reached the end of the file but found
no COMMIT WORK statement. Since a transaction was in progress (either
the file contained BEGIN WORK, or the database is ANSI compliant),
GBase SQL rolled the transaction back. (It cannot leave the
transaction open, and it cannot assume success even when no error was
returned.)


-854	Back end not found. Or back end is busy.

In DOS, the application cannot establish a connection to the local
GBase SE engine or to the GBase NET PC communications module.

The SE engine (for accessing a local database) or the GBase NET PC
communications module (for accessing a remote database) must be loaded
before trying to connect to it by means of, for example, a DATABASE
statement. To load the SE engine, run PSTARTSQ. To load the
GBase NET PC communications module, run REMSQL.

If the SE engine or the GBase NET PC communications module has
previously been loaded, and you get this error message, either another
application currently has a connection to the SE engine, or the
GBase NET PC communications module (they can have only one
connection at a time), or the current application encountered an
internal error and lost the connection.

If another application has a connection to the SE engine or to the
GBase NET PC communications module, you must first release that
connection before you can connect the current application. If the other
application is a 4GL or an ESQL/C program, that application releases
its connection by executing a CLOSE DATABASE statement, calling the
SQLEXIT( ) function, or exiting.

In extreme situations where an internal error has occurred, you must
exit the application and stop the SE engine or the GBase NET PC
communications module from the DOS command line. To stop the SE engine,
run PSTARTSQ with the -T option. After you stop the SE engine, run
PSTARTSQ with no options to reload it. To stop the GBase NET PC
communications module, run SETNET with the -T option. After you stop
the GBase NET PC communications module, run REMSQL to reload it.

This error message also might appear when a client Windows application
uses the wrong .DLL file to connect to a database server across a
network. Client Windows applications that work with GBase NET PC
Version 4.1 (such as Version 4.1 ESQL/C) can also work with
GBase NET for Windows Version 5.01. Check to see whether
GBase NET PC Version 4.1 and GBase NET for Windows Version 5.01
reside on the same client computer concurrently. If so, check that
Version 5.01 of the LDLLSQLW.DLL file appears in your PATH environment
variable setting before Version 4.1 of the LDLLSQLW.DLL file. In
addition, Version 4.1 of the LDLLSQLW.DLL file must not reside in the
current directory, the Windows directory, the Windows \SYSTEM
directory, or the directory that contains the executable file of the
application that you are running.


-855	Cannot drop rowids on a non-fragmented table.

You tried to use the ALTER TABLE...DROP syntax to drop the rowid column
on a table that is not fragmented. A non-fragmented table has a rowid
column, but you cannot drop it.


-856	Rowids already exist on table.

A rowid column already exists for the specified table. You cannot
create a rowid for a table more than once. Change your SQL statement.


-857	Rowids do not exist on table.

You cannot drop a nonexistent rowid. You specified a rowid that does
not exist in the specified table. Avoid using rowids in your SQL
statement. Instead, use a primary key to delete data.


-858	Cannot specify the same partition/space name twice in a fragmentation specification.

You specified the same dbspace or same partition name more than once in 
a fragmentation specification. Change the fragmentation specification to 
use different dbspaces/partition for each fragment.


-859	"Distributions Only" is not meaningful in an update statistics LOW
request.

You cannot specify the DISTRIBUTIONS ONLY option in the LOW mode of the
UPDATE STATISTICS statement.


-860	A fragmented object must have at least than one fragment.

The Round Robin, Exprespression based fragmeneted object must have
at least two fragments. All other fragmented objects needs to have 
at least one fragment.


-861	Cannot create new PDQ thread.

See the accompanying ISAM error for more information.


-862	Alter fragment attach must have at least one consumed table specified.

You have not specified a table to be consumed. See the syntax and usage
for ALTER FRAGMENT... ATTACH in the GBase Guide to SQL: Syntax.


-863	Cannot detach a table with rowids.

You must first drop rowids before you use ALTER FRAGMENT... DETACH. See
the syntax and usage in the GBase Guide to SQL: Syntax.


-864	Cannot attach a table with rowids.

You must first drop the rowids on the surviving table before you attach
the table.


-865	Cannot add or drop the rowid column or the cdrserver and cdrtime 
columns in combination with other alter table options.

The ADD ROWIDS, DROP ROWIDS, ADD CRCOLS, or DROP CRCOLS keywords cannot 
be combined with any other ALTER TABLE options.


-866	Cannot attach tables that contain serial fields.

Before you use an ALTER FRAGMENT... ATTACH statement, you must drop any
serial fields or modify the column type.


-867	Cannot generate new rowid.

See the accompanying ISAM error for more information. A table cannot
hold more than 2 gigabytes of records if it has serial or rowid
columns.


-868	Cannot check constraints on the attaching table.

You cannot attach a table if a check, referential, primary-key, or not null
constraint exists on the surviving table.

Drop any check, referential, primary-key, or not null constraint. Then
attach the table and if you still want to use the constraint, re-create it.


-869	Subqueries and procedures are not allowed in fragmentation expressions.

A fragmentation expression can reference only columns from the current
table and data values from a single row. The restrictions disallow
subqueries.


-870	Cannot specify duplicate remainder fragments.

You specified duplicate remainder fragments. Remove one of the
remainder fragments from your SQL statement.


-871	Remainder fragment must be specified last.

If you specify a REMAINDER, it must be the last fragment expression.
Rewrite your syntax so that you specify the remainder fragment last.


-872	Invalid fragment strategy or expression for the unique index.

The round-robin method cannot fragment unique indexes. If the
expression method fragments the indexes, all the columns that are used
in the fragmentation expressions must also be part of the index key.


-873	Invalid fragment expression column.

You cannot use columns from different tables in a fragment expression.


-874	General exception error has occurred in the optimizer.

If this internal error occurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-875	Incompatible Access Mode and Isolation Level.

If you set the access mode to READ-WRITE, you cannot set the isolation
level to READ-UNCOMMITTED.


-876	Cannot issue SET TRANSACTION once a transaction has started.

When a transaction is active, do not issue a SET TRANSACTION statement.
A transaction becomes active when a DDL or a DML statement is issued.
The only statements that you can place between the BEGIN WORK and the
SET TRANSACTION statements are SET statements such as SET EXPLAIN, SET
CONSTRAINT, SET DATASKIP, and so on.


-877	Isolation Level previously set by "Set Transaction".

Your program attempted to reset the isolation level that a preceding
SET TRANSACTION statement established. Do not use a SET ISOLATION
statement after a SET TRANSACTION statement.


-878	Invalid operation for a READ-ONLY transaction.

You specified a READ-ONLY transaction in a SET TRANSACTION statement
and then attempted to alter the database. In other words, READ-ONLY
ensures that you can read data, but you cannot alter data. If you want
to alter the data, specify READ WRITE in the SET TRANSACTION statement.
If you only want to read the data, correct your program so that it does
not attempt to alter the data.


-879	Trim character must be null or have a length of 1.

The TRIM function evaluated to NULL. However, the TRIM character value
expression must be null or contain a single character. Your program is
incorrectly written. Every time the TRIM function evaluates to NULL,
the value your program inserts into the TRIM character value expression
is not null or contains more than one character. Correct, recompile,
and rerun your program.


-880	Trim character and trim source must be of string data type.

You used a TRIM function where the TRIM character value expression and
the source character value expression were conflicting data types. The
character and source value expressions must be the string data type.
Check the syntax of the TRIM function, and check that the character and
source values contain string data type values.


-881	The resulting string length from CONCAT, LPAD, REPLACE or RPAD is longer than the maximum.

The LPAD, RPAD, REPLACE or CONCAT function returned a string whose length is 
outside the range from 1 to 32765 bytes for NVARCHAR or VARCHAR, or from 1 to 32739 
bytes for CHAR, NCHAR, or LVARCHAR. These functions return a string whose data type 
depends on the data type of the input string that the function is formatting. Make 
sure that the function returns a string whose length is within the size range for 
the returned data type.

-882	Cannot create rowids on a non-fragmented table.

You tried to use the ALTER TABLE... ADD syntax to add a rowid column to
a table that is not fragmented. This usage is not valid. If a rowid
column already exists, rowids already exist on non-fragmented tables.


-883	Cannot evaluate the fragmentation expression.

A fragmentation expression in your program is invalid. Check the
expression, and correct it. Check the logic of that expression. Also,
some components of that expression might be NULL or might not represent
existing or defined elements such as columns, hash values, ranges, index
key values, and so on.


-884	Cannot alter an index on a temporary table.

Your program attempted to alter an index on a temporary table. Correct
your program to avoid altering indexes on temporary tables.


-885	Invalid or NULL utc time given to dbinfo(utc_to_datetime).

You attempted to pass an invalid or NULL value to the dbinfo()
function. Make sure you pass a valid or non-null value to the dbinfo()
function.


-886	Cannot drop table or view because of existing dependencies.

When you issue a DROP TABLE or DROP VIEW statement, you cannot drop the
table or view if you specify the RESTRICT option and a view or
foreign-key constraint exists that depends on that table or view.

You also cannot drop a table if you specify the RESTRICT option and a
violations and diagnostics table exists for that table.


-887	Cannot revoke because of dependent privileges, views, or constraints.

You cannot use the RESTRICT option to REVOKE a privilege if that action
will cause abandoned privileges, abandoned views, or abandoned table
constraints. Refer to the GBase Guide to SQL: Tutorial for more
information.


-888	Cannot attach a table with primary-key constraints.

You cannot attach a table if a primary-key or unique constraint exists on
the surviving table or consumed table.

Drop the primary-key constraint and then attach the table. If you still
want to use the primary-key constraint, re-create it.


-889	Internal dataskip condition, should reposition to next row and continue.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstance, and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-891	Temporary table objects can only be enabled.

You cannot change the object mode of a temporary table object to the
disabled or filtering object mode.


-892	Cannot disable object object-name due to other active objects using it.

Other objects are using this object. If the object being disabled is an
index, then a unique constraint, primary constraint, or referential
constraint might be using that object. If the object is a unique or a
primary-key constraint, then a referential constraint might be using
that object. If an index of a referential constraint is being 
disabled, then a unique constraint, primary constraint, or some other
referential constraint might be using this object.

The following example illustrates one of these scenarios:

CREATE TABLE parent(c1 int, c2 int, c3 int);
ALTER TABLE parent ADD CONSTRAINT PRIMARY KEY(c1) CONSTRAINT cons_parent_c1;
CREATE TABLE child(x1 int, x2 int, x3 varchar(32));
ALTER TABLE child ADD CONSTRAINT PRIMARY KEY(x1) CONSTRAINT cons_child_x1;

The following ALTER statement is trying to disable the foreign key index that 
is being shared by the primary key, hence this error 892 is returned:

ALTER TABLE CHILD ADD CONSTRAINT
(FOREIGN KEY(x1) REFERENCES PARENT(c1) CONSTRAINT cons_child_x2 INDEX DISABLED);

-893	Cannot activate/create object object-name because of its dependencies.

The user has issued a SET statement to set a database object to the
enabled or filtering object mode, or the user has issued a CREATE
INDEX, CREATE TRIGGER, or CREATE TABLE statement to create a database
object in the enabled or filtering object mode. However, this object
needs other disabled objects. For example, before enabling a
referential constraint on a table, the user must first enable the
indexes that the constraint needs.


-894	Cannot find object object-name.

The object name that the user specified explicitly in the SET statement
is not found in the database.


-895	Cannot create violations/diagnostics table.

The user has issued a START VIOLATIONS TABLE statement for a target
table. The database server is not able to create the violations and
diagnostics tables for this target table. Any one of the following
situations might be the reason for the failure:

    *   The target table already has a violations and diagnostics table.

    *   The names that are specified for the violations and diagnostics
	table in the START VIOLATIONS TABLE statement are not valid.
	For example, if you omitted the USING clause from the statement
	and the number of characters in the target table name plus four
	characters is longer than the maximum identifier length, the
	generated names of the violations and diagnostics tables would
	be longer than the maximum identifier length. If the names of
	the violations and diagnostics tables are invalid for this
	reason, the user can give explicit names to the violations and
	diagnostics tables in the USING clause of the START VIOLATIONS
	TABLE statement to rectify the problem.

    *   The names that were specified for the violations and
	diagnostics tables in the START VIOLATIONS TABLE statement
	match the names of existing tables in the database.

    *   The target table contains columns with the names
	gbasedbt_tupleid or gbasedbt_optype. Because these two column
	names would duplicate the gbasedbt_tupleid or gbasedbt_optype
	columns in the violations table, the database server cannot
	create the violations table.

    *   The target table is a temporary table.

    *   The target table is serving as a violations or diagnostics
	table for some other table.

    *   The target table is a system catalog table.


-896	Violations table is not started for the target table.

This error occurs in either of the following cases:

   1. A STOP VIOLATIONS TABLE was executed before the START VIOLATIONS
      TABLE statement or after the START VIOLATIONS TABLE statement was
      rolled back.

   2. A violations table has not been started for the target table
      and an INSERT, DELETE, or UPDATE statement fails to satisfy any
      filtering-mode object on the target table.

A violations table must exist before execution of the STOP VIOLATIONS
statement.

To prevent this error, you can start a violations table for the
target table.


-897	Cannot modify/drop a violations/diagnostics table.

The user has tried to alter or drop a table that is serving as a
violations table or a diagnostics table for another table.


-898	Cannot alter a table which has associated violations/diagnostics tables.

The user has tried to add, drop, or modify a column in a table that has
a violations and diagnostics table associated with it.


-899	Too many violations.

The number of records in the diagnostics table either exceeds or will
exceed the limit that is specified. Limits are specified in the 
MAX VIOLATIONS clause of the START VIOLATIONS TABLE statement for 
Extended Parallel Server or the MAX ROWS clause for other 
GBase database servers. 

When a single statement on the target table (such as an INSERT or 
SET statement) causes more records to be inserted into the 
diagnostics table than the limit that is specified by the MAX
ROWS clause, this error is returned to the user who issued the
statement on the target table.