---
title: 11.Error (-901)-(-1000）
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:31:44.621Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:27:20.689Z
---

-903	Licensed  GBase SQL server not accessible.

This statement refers to another host computer system, and that system
is active and accessible. However, the sqlexecd network daemon has not
been started on it, so no database services can be gotten from it.
Contact the DBA of the other system. Check that the GBase STAR or
GBase NET software is correctly installed.


-904	Authorization file not on licensed GBase SQL server.

This message indicates that the installation of the GBase networking
software was not completed correctly. Review the installation steps on
the workstation and on the network server to make sure that it was
completed without error.


-905	Cannot locate sqlexec service /tcp service in /etc/services.

The GBase STAR or GBase NET software has not been properly
installed on this system. In particular, entries in the
system-configuration file /etc/services (UNIX) or \etc\services (DOS)
have not been made. Contact the person who installs your GBase
software.


-906	Cannot locate remote system (check DBPATH).

GBase NET is searching for the database that is requested in the
current statement. It is using the entries in the DBPATH environment
variable and is trying one that, by use of //sitename, specifies a
directory on another computer system. That system cannot be accessed.

Review the setting of the DBPATH environment variable. Check that any
other systems it specifies have GBase STAR or GBase NET installed
and active. This message appears prior to Version 6.0.


-907	Cannot create socket on current database server.

GBase STAR or GBase NET is trying to access another computer
system but is unable to create a connection. Contact your system
administrator, and ask for a check that TCP/IP is correctly installed
and functioning.


-908	Attempt to connect to database server (servername) failed.

The program or application is trying to access another database server
but has failed. Note the server name in the current statement.

The desired database server is unavailable, or the network is down or
is congested. Ask your DBA and system administrator to verify that the
server and network are operational. If the network is congested, use
the environment variables GBASEDBTCONTIME and GBASEDBTCONRETRY to tune
connection timing. For information on setting these environment variables,
see the GBase Guide to SQL: Reference.

This message appears in Version 6.0 and later versions.


-909	Invalid database name format.

This statement seems to refer to a database from another database
server, but the database name, site name, server name, or punctuation
is incorrect. Review the statement, and check that all identifiers
start with a letter (or underscore, for Version 6.0 and later) and
contain only letters, digits, and underscores, and that the reference
is in the form dbname@sitename or //sitename/dbname (before Version
6.0) or dbname@servername or //servername/dbname (Version 6.0 and
later). If you are using GBase OnLine for NetWare, check that you
provided the remote database name in one of the forms that is explained
in the product manual.


-910	Cannot create an GBase Database Server database from 
        an GBase SE client.

This CREATE DATABASE statement cannot be carried out because the
database server on your workstation and the one on the other computer
system are different products: one is GBase SE and the other is
another GBase database server. You can manipulate databases in this
configuration, but you cannot create one.

To create a database, either start the same product in both locations, or
run this statement locally on the other computer system.

-911	System error - Cannot read from pipe.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application and the GBase STAR or GBase NET software. Look for
operating-system error messages that might give more information.
Restart the application. If the problem recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-912	Network error - Could not write to database server.

A network failure occurred. Look for operating-system error messages
that might give more information. Restart the application. If the
problem recurs, contact your system administrator, and ask for network
diagnostics to be run.


-913	Network error - Could not read from database server.

A network failure occurred. Look for operating-system error messages
that might give more information. Restart the application. If the
problem recurs, contact your system administrator, and ask for network
diagnostics to be run.


-914	System error - Cannot write to pipe.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application and the GBase STAR or GBase NET software. Look for
operating-system error messages that might give more information.
Restart the application. If the problem recurs, note all
circumstances and contact Technical Support at support@gbase.cn.


-915	Cannot create an GBase SE database from an GBase 
        Dynamic Server client.

This CREATE DATABASE statement cannot be carried out because the
database server on your workstation and the one in the other computer
system are different products: one is GBase SE and the other is
another GBase database server. You can manipulate databases in this
configuration, but you cannot create one.

To create a database, either start the same product in both locations, or
run this statement locally on the other computer system.


-916	NFS mount table error.

The database server that you tried to access or a path that was
specified in your DBPATH environment variable is located on an
NFS-mounted file system. However, the database server or client
application encountered an error accessing the NFS-mounted table file
/etc/mtab (or, on some operating systems, /etc/mnttab). This condition
probably occurred because your account does not have read permission
for the file. Contact your system administrator, and have the file made
readable to public.

This message appears with Version 6.0 and later.


-916	Cannot open /etc/mtab.

The database server needs to check the system configuration file
/etc/mtab to verify the location of a file system. However, it got an
error when it tried to read that file, probably because your account
does not have read permission for it. Contact your system
administrator, and have the file made readable to public.

This message appears prior to Version 6.0.


-917	Must close current database before using a new database.

This statement (DATABASE or CREATE DATABASE) requires you to open a
different database. However, the current database is located on another
computer system, so you must explicitly close it with the CLOSE
DATABASE statement. (When you work with databases located on the same
computer as your application program, the database server will close
the current database for you automatically.) If a program receives this
error, review the program logic, and check that it executes a CLOSE
DATABASE statement before a [CREATE] DATABASE statement. This solution
will work in all situations, networked or local.


-918	Unexpected data received from another database server.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application and the GBase STAR or GBase NET software at another
site. Restart your application. If the problem recurs, ask your system
administrator to run network diagnostics. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-919	System error. Wrong number of arguments to database server process.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application, GBase STAR or GBase NET software, and the database
server on the other computer system. Check that all three of these
software components are at compatible software levels. (For versions
prior to Version 6.0, see the appropriate GBase NET/GBase STAR
Installation and Configuration Guide for a compatibility chart).
Recompile and relink your application program if necessary. If the
problem recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-921	System error. Illegal or wrong number of arguments to sqlexec server.

This internal error reflects a failure in communications between your
application and the database server on the other computer system. Check
that all software components are at compatible software levels. Recompile
and relink your application program if necessary. If the problem recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.

For a Windows system, check your Client Installation and Configuration
Guide for information about using Setnet32 to set the environment variables
that affect client-server communications.

For versions prior to Version 6.0, see the appropriate
GBase NET/GBase STAR Installation and Configuration Guide for
a compatibility chart.


-922	Cannot get name of current working directory.

A problem exists with the current working directory on this system or
on another computer system that your application is using. Possibly
your account does not have read access to the directory, or possibly
the file system that contains it is improperly mounted. Exit your
application, and retry. If the problem persists, see your system
administrator for assistance.


-923	GBase is licensed to access the current database server only.

This version of the GBase product is not licensed for network use.
Locate the version of the software that is licensed for use with
GBase STAR or GBase NET, and reset your GBASEDBTDIR environment
variable and the SQLEXEC environment variable (for database servers
prior to Version 6.0) to point to it.


-924	GBase is not licensed to access the specified database server.

If you have installed an GBase NET station package only on your
client computer, you cannot access locally resident databases. If the
database that you are attempting to access is not locally resident,
enter the command again and specify a site name with the database name,
or set your DBPATH environment variable to indicate searches only in
specific sites. If you want to use your GBase product to access both
local and remote databases, contact your GBase representative
for details on purchasing the appropriate GBase product.


-925	The protocol type should be tcp.

The protocol type that is shown in the $GBASEDBTDIR/etc/sqlhosts file
(or in \GBASEDBT\etc\sqlhosts on GBase OnLine for NetWare) should be
tcp.


-926	The database server is not licensed for distributed data
access.

This statement refers to a database in a different database server (for
example, by qualifying the name of a table with dbname@sitename:table).
However, this version is not licensed for such use. With this version,
you can refer only to tables in databases that are all on the same
database server.

Contact your GBase representative about upgrading this database server
to full GBase STAR status. If you believe that you have GBase STAR
installed, check the contents of the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable. If
you are using GBase OnLine for NetWare, you cannot access tables or
databases on remote systems unless you have GBase NET PC.




-927	Exceeded limit on maximum number of servers you can reference.

This statement contains references to more sites than the database
server can handle. Through Version 4.1, the limit on different site
names that can appear in one statement is 32 (later versions might
allow more). Review the statement, and check that only necessary sites
are named. If so, revise the operation to use fewer sites (for example,
by selecting some data into a local, temporary table).


-928	The database server is not licensed for distributed data access.

This statement refers to a database on a different computer system (for
example, by qualifying the name of a table with dbname@sitename:table).
However, the database server that is active at the indicated site is not
licensed for such use. This situation indicates an error in the setup of
the remote computer system: it was configured for network access, but the
wrong database server was started. Contact the network administrator, and
ask for a check of the environment variables when starting the sqlexecd
daemon. If you are using GBase OnLine for NetWare, you tried to access
a table on an database server that is not licensed for remote access; you
can access only other GBase NET PC systems.


-930	Cannot connect to database server servername.

The application is trying to access another computer system but failed.
Note the server name in the current statement. Ask your network
administrator and DBA to check that the network is operational and that
the particular database server is active. This message appears with
Version 6.0 and later.


-929	SQLI Protocol Error.  Session terminated.

The database server received a SQLI protocol request that could not be 
interpreted. Such messages are treated as attacks on the server and the 
session issuing such a request is unilaterally terminated immediately.  
If you think you received this message erroneously, record all the 
details (including the version of CSDK or I-Connect in use) and 
contact GBase Technical Support.


-930	Cannot connect to remote host sitename.

GBase STAR or GBase NET is trying to access another computer
system but has failed. Note the site name in the current statement.
Contact your network administrator, and ask for a check that the
network is operational and that the particular site is active. This
message appears in database servers prior to Version 6.0.


-931	Cannot locate servicename service/tcp service in /etc/services.

The service servicename is not listed in the network configuration file
/etc/services (UNIX) or \etc\services (DOS). Check the
$GBASEDBTDIR/etc/sqlhosts file, and check that the service name for the
desired server is correct. If so, contact your network administrator to
find out why the service is not known. If you are using GBase OnLine
for NetWare, check the \etc\services file on the client for the
required entries.


-932	Error on network connection, function system call failed.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application and the network software (GBase STAR, GBase NET,
GBase NET for Windows, and so on) at another site. Restart your
application. Look for operating-system messages that might give more
information.

If you are using GBase NET for Windows, a Windows Sockets problem
might exist; check your Windows Sockets 1.1 documentation for more
information. Check the sqlerrm field of the sqlca structure for the
particular Windows Sockets message.

In the ASCL context, this error might also indicate problems in your
gbasedbt.ini file. Verify that the SERVICE, HOST, and PASSWD entries
are correct.

If the problem recurs, ask your network administrator to run network
diagnostics. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-933	Unknown network type specified in DBNETTYPE.

The DBNETTYPE environment variable is used on certain machines to
distinguish which network protocol to use when two protocols are
available. The value that is currently set in it is not supported.
Display the variable, and check that it is set correctly. Prior to
Version 6.0, refer to the GBase NET/GBase STAR Installation and
Configuration Guide for the correct setting. If you are using
GBase OnLine for NetWare, set DBNETTYPE to starlan, tcp/ip, or some
other supported network.


-934	Connection to remote site no longer valid.

This statement uses data from another computer system, but the
connection has been lost. Roll back the transaction, and try again
after you reestablish the connection.


-935	Cannot obtain IPX address for service name servicename.

You are trying to connect to a database server with the indicated
service name via the IPX/SPX network protocol on a system with portable
GBase OnLine for NetWare. The client application, GBase NET or
GBase STAR, is not able to determine the IPX address that is
associated with the specified service name. Possibly the service name
is misspelled in your sqlhosts file; the sqlexecd daemon or the
database server is not running; or the portable GBase OnLine for
NetWare software is not operating properly. Verify the service name in
your sqlhosts file. Ask your DBA or system administrator to verify that
the sqlexecd daemon, the database server, and the portable
GBase OnLine for NetWare software are operational.


-936	Error on remote connection connection-name.

An attempted connection to a remote host failed. Check the name of the
connection that is specified in your particular connection statement
(CONNECT, DATABASE, and so on) to make sure that you correctly
specified the name or path of the connection. Check for incorrect
spelling. Check for the wrong connection name.


-937	User Defined Routine error.

mi_db_error_raise() has been called from within a user-defined routine
and set a fatal error. For an explanation, look at the SQLSTATE that
the user-defined routine set.


-938	VALUES clause may not have expressions if a cursor is declared
on an INSERT.

The INSERT statement to be associated with the INSERT cursor includes
a VALUES clause that has one or more expressions.

Change the application so that expressions are not used in the
VALUES clause.


-939	Too many messages to display; some are not shown.

This message appears if a single error in the server results in a large 
number of messages being returned. For example, if there is a nested set 
of calls in which a user-defined routine (UDR) executes an SQL statement 
that calls another UDR, and so on, when an error occurs, each UDR returns 
a message for that error corresponding to its own context.  When the 
number of messages exceeds an internal limit, the remaining messages are 
replaced by this message.  You do not need to take any special action.


-940	The statement failed, becuase the WITH CHECK OPTION keywords are not 
supported in Union, Intersect, or Minus views.

You tried to define a union/intersect/minus view with a check options. Redefine 
the union/intersect/minus view without the check options clause.


-941	String processing error while evaluating function (function_name).

An error occurred during evaluation of the case conversion function on
the input string. This error could be due to an invalid character (single-
or multi-byte) in the string. You need to execute the query again after
verifying that the characters in the input string are valid.


-942	Transaction commit failed - transaction will be rolled back.

This error can occur at transaction-commit time if an error is raised
when a DataBlade routine calls a UDR-registered end-of-transaction
(MI_EVENT_END_XACT) callback. You have registered a callback for the
MI_EVENT_END_XACT (or MI_Xact_State_Change) event in the context of a
server routine. When the end-of-transaction (MI_EVENT_END_XACT) event
occurred to commit the transaction, an error was raised.

Within a DataBlade routine, you can use the mi_error_desc_next()
function to obtain the next error, which should explain the cause of the
failure. Currently, the end-of-transaction (MI_EVENT_END_XACT) event
occurs only within the context of a DataBlade server routine. It does
not occur within the context of a DataBlade client application.


-943	Found a non-terminated comment ("/*" with no matching "*/").

DB-Access does not currently support comments without terminators. You
might see this message when you run .sql scripts through DB-Access.


-944	Cannot use "first", "limit", "top" or "skip" in this context.

This statement uses FIRST N , LIMIT N, TOP N or SKIP M inside a subquery. This action is not supported.

Review the use of FIRST N and check that it is applied only to the outer main
query SELECT clause.


-945	Invalid parameter given to dbinfo(version).

You entered a value for a version that this command does not support. 
The arguments to dbinfo() are invalid or NULL. The first argument was the
string constant version.

Check that the second argument is also a quoted string constant that
corresponds to one of the following values: 'major', 'minor', 'level',
'os', 'server-type', or 'full'.





-946	Source string for UPPER, LOWER, and INITCAP must be of string type.

The source string passed as input to a case conversion function must have
a character data type.


-947	Declaration of an SPL variable named 'null' conflicts
with SQL NULL value.

Users may not define an SPL routine variable whose spelling
is 'null'. This is an error because allowing such definition would
restrict the global scope of the NULL constant.


-948	Cannot rename constraint index.

User tried to rename a system-generated constraint index.

You do not need to take any action because you are not allowed to rename a
system-generated constraint index.


-949	Unable to alter fragmentation scheme when indexes disabled.

An attempt has been made to alter the fragmentation scheme on a table
that has disabled indexes. This is not allowed. The action is aborted.


-950	User username is not known on the database server.

This statement refers to a database on another computer system, but the
other database server does not accept your account name. You must have 
a valid trusted login identity on any database server you access remotely.
See your database administrator about putting your login ID in 
'sysuser:sysauth' on the remote server. This message appears on PAM enabled 
servers.


-951	User username is not known on the database server.

The database server that you tried to access does not accept either
your user ID, the login name that is specified for the desired server
host in your ~/.netrc file, or the user name that is specified in the
USER clause of a CONNECT statement. If you are explicitly specifying
your user name in the ~/.netrc file or in a CONNECT statement, check
that the name is correct. If you do not have a valid user ID on the
server computer, see your system administrator. This message appears
with Version 6.0 and later.


-951	User is not known on remote host.

This statement refers to a database on another computer system, but the
other system does not accept your account name. You must have a valid
login identity on any computer system you access. See your network
administrator about getting a login ID. This message appears prior to
Version 6.0.


-952	User's password is not correct for the database server.

The password that is specified for the server computer in your ~/.netrc
file or in the USER clause of a CONNECT statement is incorrect. The
database server does not accept (or cannot find) your account password.
Check that your password is specified correctly, and try again. This
message appears with Version 6.0 and later.


-952	User (<user-id>)'s password is not correct for the database server.

The password that is specified for the server computer in your ~/.netrc
file or in the USER clause of a CONNECT statement is incorrect. The
database server does not accept (or cannot find) your account password.
Check that your password is specified correctly, and try again. This
message appears with Version 6.0 and later.


-953	Network server could not exec sqlexec program.

The network server was unable to start the database server thread. The
most common cause for this error is a failure to define the GBASEDBTDIR
environment variable, by root, at the time the database server process
was started. Contact your network administrator, and ask that the
database server process on the remote system be restarted with a valid
path to the GBase software. This message appears with Version 6.0
and later.


-953	Remote host could not exec sqlexec program.

The network daemon, sqlexecd, on the other computer system was unable
to start the database server process. The most common cause of this
error is a failure to define the GBASEDBTDIR and SQLEXEC environment
variables, by root, at the time the daemon was started. Contact your
network administrator, and ask that the daemon on the remote system be
restarted with a valid path to the GBase software. This message
appears prior to Version 6.0.


-954	Client is not known to remote host.

The computer on which your application is running is not known to the
computer you are trying to access. Contact your network administrator,
and ask that your computer be made known. The usual way of making a
computer known is through the configuration file /etc/hosts.equiv on the
other system. Refer to the GBase NET/GBase STAR Installation and
Configuration Guide. This message appears prior to Version 6.0.


-954	Client is not known to database server.

The computer on which your application is running is not known to the
database server that you are trying to access. Contact your network
administrator, and ask that your computer be made known, most likely
through the configuration file /etc/hosts on the other system. This
message appears with Version 6.0 and later.


-955	Remote host could not receive data from client.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
application and the GBase STAR or GBase NET software at another
site. Restart your application. Look for operating-system messages that
might give more information. If the problem recurs, ask your network
administrator to run network diagnostics. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support. This
message appears prior to Version 6.0.


-955	Database server could not receive data from client.

This internal error reflects a failure in communication between your
client application and the database server software at another site.
Restart your application. Look for operating-system messages that might
give more information. If the problem recurs, ask your DBA to run
network diagnostics. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support. This message
appears beginning with Version 6.0.


-956	Client client-name is not in /etc/hosts.equiv on the remote host.

This operation cannot be completed because the specified remote computer
does not recognize the name of the client computer (the local host,
whose name the hostname command returns). Client names are normally
recorded in the configuration file /etc/hosts.equiv. The rhosts file on
the remote computer might also need modification. For more information
on these files and the relation between them, try man rhosts on a UNIX
system. See the remote host administrator to ensure that the client
host name is specified in /etc/hosts.equiv file for the remote host.
This message appears in versions prior to Version 6.0.


-956	Client client-name or user is not trusted by the database server.

The desired database server does not consider the client computer or
your user ID trusted. Ask the system administrator to include the
client computer as a trusted host and/or your user id as a trusted user
in the /etc/hosts.equiv file on the server computer or in the .rhosts
file in your home directory on the server computer. See the UNIX manual
pages on HOSTS.EQUIV(5) for more information.

Alternatively, you can explicitly specify your user name and password
in the USER clause of a CONNECT statement or in the .netrc file in your
home directory on the client computer. See the GBase Guide to SQL:
Syntax for information on the CONNECT statement, and the UNIX manual
pages regarding NETRC(5) for information on the .netrc file. This
message appears with Version 6.0 and later.


-957	Cannot create/access database on NFS mount.

Note the specifics of your system when this internal error
occurred, and contact GBase Technical Support.


-958	Temp table <table-name> already exists in session.

This statement tries to create a table with the name that is shown, but a
temporary table with that name already exists. Only one temporary table with
a given name can exist in a session.

Check the spelling of the name. If the name is spelled as you intended, check
that a temporary table with the given name does not exist in the session.
To review the names of temporary tables, query the systabnames table as
follows:

    SELECT dbsname, tabname FROM sysmaster:systabnames
           WHERE tabname = <table-name>

If the name exists, review this name by querying the systables table
in <dbsname>:

    SELECT tabname FROM <dbsname>:systables
           WHERE tabname = <table-name>

If the name does not exist in systables (" No rows found "), this table is
a temporary table.


-959	The current transaction has been rolled back due to an
internal error.

A server thread associated with your session has been suspended, most
likely because of a serious internal error. Evidence about the
problem has been gathered and written to an Assertion Failure file,
and your online log should contain more information. Contact 
GBase Technical Support and provide them with your Assertion
Failure file.

Before suspending the session thread, the server attempted to roll
back all work performed by the current transaction. Your connection
to the server may also have been broken, depending on the type of
thread that was suspended. At a minimum you will have to begin a
new transaction.


-960	The connection failed because the user failed the security
check set by the SECURITY_LOCALCONNECTION configuration parameter.

The ID of the local user running the client program is not the same
ID of the user trying to access the database. The server checks the
user IDs when the SECURITY_LOCALCONNECTION configuration parameter
is set to a nonzero value.

See the GBase Administrator's Reference manual for more
information.


-971	Integrity violations detected.

The user has attempted to change the object mode of a disabled
constraint or disabled unique index to the enabled or filtering mode,
but the SET statement fails because the table contains data that
violates the constraint or the unique-index requirement. If a
violations table has been started for the table that contains the
inconsistent data, this message is returned to the user. The message
is returned whether or not the SET statement included the WITH ERROR
option.

Similarly, when an INSERT, DELETE, or UPDATE statement causes some
records to be added to the violations table because the statement
violates a filtering-mode object, this message is returned to the user
if the following two conditions are true:

    *   The SET statement or CREATE statement that specified the
	filtering-object mode for the object included the WITH ERROR
	option.

    *   No other errors have been encountered during the execution of
	the INSERT, DELETE, or UPDATE statement.


-972	Unable to alter table table-name.

The in-place alter table operation cannot be performed. See the
accompanying ISAM error for more information.


-973	Cannot insert from the violations table to the target table.

The user issued a statement that attempts to insert rows from the
violations table into the target table. For example, the user enters
the following statement:

INSERT INTO mytable SELECT * FROM mytable_vio

If the target table has some filtering-mode objects, this error is
returned to the user. The user can recover in any of the following
ways:

    *   Set the object mode of the filtering objects to some other
        mode.

    *   Stop the violations table.

    *   Insert rows from the violations table into a temporary table,
	and then insert rows from the temporary table into the target
	table.


-974	Cannot drop not null constraint on the serial column.

The user issued a statement to drop a NOT NULL constraint on a column
that has a SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL data type. Such constraints 
can be disabled, but they cannot be dropped before the column is dropped.


-975	Invalid object and object mode combination.

The user tried to create a new object in an object mode that does not
apply to that object type, or the user set the object mode of an
existing object to a mode that does not apply to that type of object.
For example, if the user tries to create a trigger in the filtering
mode or set an existing trigger to the filtering mode, the user
receives this error.


-976	Table must be fragmented by expression to grant fragment authority.

The user attempted to grant fragment-level privileges on an
unfragmented table or on a table that is not fragmented by expression.


-977	No permission on fragment (dbspace-name/partition-name).

The user does not have the required fragment-level privilege on the
table fragment. This message is always followed by another message that
identifies the privilege that the user lacks. If an INSERT statement
fails, the second message is -271. If an UPDATE statement fails, the
second message is -346. If a DELETE statement fails, the second message
is -240.


-978	No insert permission on the violations/diagnostics tables.

The user issued an INSERT, DELETE, or UPDATE statement on a table with
filtering-mode objects. The user receives this message because the user
lacks the INSERT privilege on the violations or diagnostics tables that
are associated with this table. The user must have the INSERT privilege
on the violations and diagnostics tables before the database server can
write rows into the violations and diagnostics tables for that user.

Similarly, if the user issued a SET statement to change the object mode
of a disabled constraint or a disabled unique index to the enabled or
filtering mode, and if a violations table has been started for the
target table, the user receives this message if the user lacks the
INSERT privilege on the violations or diagnostics table associated with
the target table.


-979	The current transaction has been rolled back due to an
internal error.

A server thread associated with your session has been suspended, most
likely because of a serious internal error. Evidence about the
problem has been gathered and written to an Assertion Failure file,
and your online log should contain more information.

Before suspending the session thread, the server attempted to roll
back all work performed by the current transaction. Your connection
to the server might also have been broken, depending on the type of
thread that was suspended. At a minimum, you will have to begin a
new transaction.

Contact GBase Technical Support and provide them with your
Assertion Failure file.

-980	Within Temp Table Create or Write or Execute is fault	

This error means within operator execute temp table is fault.Listagg .eg

-981	INSERT operation disallowed on virtual columns..

If a table contains virtual columns,it do not support insert operations.


-982	UPDATE operation disallowed on virtual columns..

If a table contains virtual columns,it do not support update operations.


-983	The virtual column is referenced in a column expression.

virtual column is referenced in a column expression.


-984	Cannot modify data-type of virtual column.

Cannot modify data-type of virtual column.


-985	Virtual expression's value too large for the virtual column.

Virtual expression's value too large for the virtual column.


-986	Real column cannot have an expression..

Real column cannot have an expression..


-987	Column to be dropped or modified is used in a virtual column expression.

Column to be dropped or modified is used in a virtual column expression.


-988	Specified data type is not supported for a virtual column.

Specified data type is not supported for a virtual column.


-989	Invalid column expression was specified..

Invalid column expression was specified..

-999	Not implemented yet.

This error means the functionality being exercised is not currently
implemented. Check the documentation and release notes that
describe this current restriction in this particular release for this
product. If this condition is not described in the regular documentation
or the release notes and recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.