---
title: 13.Error (-2001)-(-3000)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:43:39.892Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:43:38.025Z
---

-2013	The output form file filename cannot be opened.

Possibly your account does not have permission to write in the
specified directory; possibly the disk is full. In some systems, the
problem might be related to a limit on the number of open files. Look
for operating-system messages for more information.


-2014	There were an incorrect number of arguments on the operating
system command line. At least one (1) argument is expected.

When you run the Form Compiler from the command line, you must specify
either the -d option or the name of a form.


-2015	An open comment symbol, {, was found inside an already open
comment on line line, character column. This could be due to a failure
to close the previously opened comment, which was begun on line line,
character column.

Nested comments are not supported. Review the form specification, and
inspect all comments. Check that each open brace has a matching close
brace.


-2016	A comment has been opened, but not closed. The last comment begun
was opened on line line, character column.

Insert a close-comment symbol where appropriate in the report
specification.


-2017	The character data value does not convert correctly to the field type.

You have entered a character value (a quoted string) into a field that
has a different data type (for example INTEGER). However, the
characters that you entered cannot be converted to the type of the
field. Consult the operating instructions for this application, then
reenter the data.


-2018	A grammatical error has been found on line line, character column.
The construct is not understandable in its context.

This message points to the exact spot in a source file where the
compiler could no longer understand the input. The actual mistake might
be earlier in the file, perhaps several lines earlier, but it is not
later. Other, more specific error messages should also appear.


-2019	This integer exceeds the maximum size allowed.

The INTEGER data type can accept numbers with absolute values from 0 to
2,147,483,647 (plus or minus (2 to the 31st power) - 1). If you have to
store numbers outside this range, redefine the column or variable to
use DECIMAL data type. (The value -2,147,483,648 is a 32-bit value but
is not acceptable; it is used in 4GL to indicate a null value.)


-2020	The table table-name could not be opened. The operating system was
asked to open it for writing.

You are using a database server that manages tables as ordinary disk
files. The current database is managed as a directory, and tables are
files within it. Look for operating-system error messages that might
give more information. Locate the database directory (either in the
current directory or on a path that is named in the DBPATH environment
variable). Check that disk space is available. In UNIX, your personal
account does not have to have write access to the directory and table
files; however, they must be writable to the group-id gbasedbt.


-2021	An illegal color has been specified. Colors 0 through 7 are white,
yellow, magenta, red, cyan, green, blue, and black.

Both in a COLOR attribute in a form specification and in a display
attribute in a 4GL program, you must specify colors by name and spell
them as this message shows. Check the spelling and punctuation of the
statement.


-2022	This identifier exceeds the maximum length for identifiers,
which is <length>.

Names of fields and other identifiers cannot exceed the maximum length. In
GBase Database Server 9.2 or later, the maximum length for identifiers is 128
characters. In other GBase servers, the maximum length for
identifiers is 18 characters.

Revise the form specification and recompile it.


-2023	This quoted string exceeds the maximum length for quoted strings,
which is length.

You cannot use longer quoted strings. In a form, you cannot join
shorter strings to make longer ones, so this maximum is an absolute
length limit. You must revise the form specification and recompile it.


-2024	There is already a record name specified. If the record name is
the same as a table name in the form, a default record of the same name
has been created.

Check that the record-name of every screen record and screen array is
unique in the form specification. A screen record is automatically
defined for each table that is used in the ATTRIBUTES section to define
a field. If you define a record with the name of a table, it is seen as
a duplicate.


-2025	The comment close symbol (}) has been found on line line, character
column, even though no comment has been opened.

Unless comment symbols are enclosed in quotes, they must be balanced.
Probably you accidentally deleted the open-comment symbol when you were
editing. Change the form specification so that comments are properly
delimited.


-2026	The FORMONLY field fieldname did not have a type specified. A type
must be specified if include lists or default values are specified.

The usual way of defining a form-only field (one not linked to a
database column) is as follows:

tagname = DISPLAYONLY.fieldname TYPE datatype

The TYPE clause is required. Review the attribute statements and
recompile the form. (The keyword FORMONLY is used in forms that the 4GL
compiler compiles. Its meaning is the same as DISPLAYONLY.)


-2027	An illegal (invisible, control) character has been found on
line line,character column. It has been replaced by a blank in the listing,
but it is still in the source (input) table, and should be removed before
attempting to compile again.

Illegal characters can be introduced into files by using a
word-processing editor in document mode instead of text mode, by
striking nonprinting keys while editing the file, or by data
corruption.


-2028	The symbol name does not represent a table prefix used in this form.
It cannot be used here to select record elements.

In a SCREEN RECORD statement, each component must be introduced by the
name of the table as defined in the TABLES section or by the word
FORMONLY. Review the spelling of the indicated name against the TABLES
section, and check the punctuation of the rest of the statement.


-2029	Screen record array name has component sizes which either
differ from the specified dimension of the array or differ among themselves.

The dimension of the screen array is written in square brackets that
follow its name, as in the following example where the dimension is 12:

SCREEN RECORD details [12]

(items.item_num, items.item_desc, items.unit_price)

In this case, exactly 12 screen fields should be associated with each
of the three columns that are listed in the screen record. This error
message appears when one or more of the columns appear a different
number of times.


-2030	A typographical error has been found on line line, character column.

The single character at the indicated position, although printable, is
unexpected and does not fit the syntax of a form specification.


-2031	The WORDWRAP attribute can only be specified for CHAR, VARCHAR and
TEXT fields.

This PRINT statement applies the WORDWRAP function to a value that is
not character data. Check that the field named is the one that you
intended, and check the punctuation of the rest of the statement.


-2032	The number above could not be successfully converted to either an
INTEGER or a DOUBLE or a LONG.

Something is wrong with the numeric constant; probably it has too many
digits. Check the punctuation of the statement; possibly two numbers
have been run together.


-2033	The field name has a default value not within the range of its include
list values.

The indicated field has both a DEFAULT attribute and an INCLUDE
attribute, but they disagree. The default value is not one that is
allowed. Modify one of the attributes, and recompile the form
specification.


-2034	This feature is not available for GBase SQL. It is available for
GBase 4GL by using the "form4gl" form builder.

The PERFORM form compiler and the 4GL form compiler accept very similar
form specifications, but they differ in some features. This statement
uses a 4GL feature, but PERFORM cannot process it.


-2035	The WORDWRAP attribute, if specified, should apply to all
the columns in a join.

Ignore this message. It applies to a feature of PERFORM (joins) that
4GL does not support.


-2036	The display lines of a multi-line field lie in different screen pages.

A multiline field (multiple fields with identical tags, given the
WORDWRAP attribute) must be complete within a screen page. Possibly you
did not intend the field to be on two pages. If your page layout, plus 4
reserved lines, is taller than the physical screen (as specified in
the SCREEN statement or in the lines dimension on the command line),
the form is divided by starting a new page after the last line that can
fit on the page, and this situation might accidentally split a
multiline field. In any case, rearrange fields so that the multiline
field fits on a single page.


-2037	The PROGRAM attribute can only be specified for BYTE and TEXT fields.

The field attribute PROGRAM specifies an external program to edit or
display a BYTE or TEXT value; these values are assumed to be too large
and specialized for the normal form-display methods. However, in this
statement, the attribute is applied to a column of another type, which
is not supported. Check the table and column names to make sure that
they are as you intended, and verify the current definition of the
table in the database that is named in the DATABASE statement.


-2038	BLOB fields cannot be joined.

Columns of BYTE and TEXT types cannot be compared. Therefore, they
cannot be used in joining tables, and they cannot be named as join
columns or in a COMPOSITES statement. Check that the table and column
names are as you intended, and verify the current definition of the
table in the database that the DATABASE statement names.


-2039	The attributes AUTONEXT, DEFAULT, INCLUDE, VERIFY, RIGHT and ZEROFILL
are not supported for BLOB fields.

Columns of BYTE and TEXT types cannot be used in the ways that these
attributes imply. Check that the table and column names are as you
intended, and verify the current definition of the table in the
database that the DATABASE statement names.


-2040	The form name name exceeds the maximum length of length characters.

The limit of the form compiler on names might be shorter than that of
the host operating system. Rename the form-specification file, and
issue the command again.


-2041	The form filename cannot be opened. This is probably because
it does not exist, or the user does not have read permission.

Check the spelling of filename. Check that the form file exists in your
current directory. If it is in another directory, check that the
correct pathname has been provided. On a UNIX system, if these things
are correct, verify that your account has read permission on the file.


-2042	The usage of a BLOB field in or around the above statement
is incorrect.

Columns of BYTE and TEXT types cannot be used in the ways that this
statement implies. Check that the table and column names are as you
intended, and verify the current definition of the table in the
database that the DATABASE statement names.


-2043	Screen layout exceeds the specified screen width. This is
a warning only.

The assumed screen width is taken from the SCREEN statement or a
command-line parameter to the form compiler, with a default of 80
characters. If the current form specification is displayed on a
terminal of that width, either some lines truncate, or lines wrap
unattractively.


-2044	At most one color attribute may be specified for each
field with each condition.

Review this ATTRIBUTES statement; a problem exists near a COLOR
attribute. Look for missing punctuation.


-2045	The conditional attributes of a 4GL field cannot depend
on the values of other fields.

The Boolean expression in a WHERE clause of a COLOR attribute can use
only the name of that field and constants. Revise this attribute, and
recompile the form.


-2100	Field field has validation string error, String = string.

One of the formatting or validation strings that is stored in the
syscolval or syscolatt tables is improperly coded. The string is shown
as is the field to which it applies. Use the Column Attributes
Dictionary utility in Windows or the upscol utility in DOS and UNIX to
update the string.


-2800	The first line of the specification must be the keyword database
followed by the database name, or the FORMONLY keyword (4GL only). An optional
WITHOUT NULL INPUT may also follow.

Aside from comment lines, a form specification must begin by naming a
database. Review the file for punctuation and spelling errors. Refer to
the reference manual for this product for the options that are allowed
in the DATABASE statement. (Current products do not use this message.
You might encounter it with Version 4.0 or earlier products.)


-2810	The name name is not an existing database name.

This name, which was found in the DATABASE statement at the start of
the form specification, is not a database that can be found. If you
are using GBase SE, the database must reside either in the current
directory or in a directory that the DBPATH environment variable
names.


-2811	The temporary table table-name could not be opened for writing.

The application is attempting to create a temporary table in the
database or some other temporary file but received an error code from
the database server. The most probable cause is a lack of disk space.
Look for other error messages, including operating-system messages,
that might give more information.


-2812	The temporary table table-name could not be read.

The application created and filled a temporary table in the database or
created and filled some other temporary file, but when it tried to read
rows from it, it received an error code from the database server.
Probably a hardware failure occurred. Look for other error messages,
including operating-system messages, that might give more information.


-2820	The label name between brackets is incorrectly given or
the label is missing.

In this line of the SCREEN section of a form specification, square
brackets indicate a field. The brackets should contain a simple name.
Instead, they contain spaces or an invalid name. Review the punctuation
of the line to make sure that the brackets contain only a simple
identifier.


-2830	A left square bracket has been found on this line, with no right
square bracket to match it.

A screen field cannot span lines. Review the SCREEN section to make
sure all fields are properly marked. To create a multiline field, mark
off multiple complete fields all with the same field tag.


-2831	The control block has exceeded the maximum of limit fields.

Too many columns or tables are listed in the OF clause of this control
block. Write separate control blocks, each for part of the list.


-2832	This form uses "|" to both start and end a field placement.
Because of this, the form must specify left and right delimiters which
are the same character. This is done with the DELIMITERS command in
the INSTRUCTIONS section.

Make sure that a DELIMITERS statement is present and that it specifies
the same character for both left and right delimiters.


-2834	NULL cannot be used as the default. It is already the
default if you specify nothing.

This ATTRIBUTES statement contains a DEFAULT clause that specifies
NULL. Either delete the clause, or specify another value.


-2840	The label tag was not defined in the form.

The indicated name appears at the left of this ATTRIBUTES statement,
but it does not appear within brackets in the SCREEN section. Review
the field tags that have been defined to see why this one was omitted.


-2841	The form must include a tables declaration before the attributes
section.

Check that the form-specification file contains a DATABASE statement, a
SCREEN section, a TABLES section, and an ATTRIBUTES section, in that
order.


-2843	The column column-name does not appear in the form specification.

A name in this ATTRIBUTES statement should have been defined previously
in the form specification. Check that all names in the statement are
spelled correctly and defined properly.


-2844	The column column-name is associated with more than one field in the
form specification.

Any one table column can be related to only one field in an ATTRIBUTES
statement. Possibly you are trying to display columns from two or more
tables that have the same column names; in that case, prefix the table
names to the column names to distinguish them.


-2845	The composite column for table table-name containing
column column is not indexed. Performance will be much improved by
creating an index on the column.

The presence of an index can greatly reduce the time that is needed to
join tables. However, an index is not essential, especially when the
tables are small, or during initial testing.


-2846	The field field-name is not a member of the table table-name.

Something in this statement suggests that the name shown is part of
this table, but that is not true in the current database. Review the
spelling of the two names. If they are as you intended, check that the
correct database is in use and that the table has not been altered.


-2850	The name name is not a column name in this database.

The tables that are specified in the TABLES section of the form exist,
but the column name, which is named in the ATTRIBUTES section, does
not. Check its spelling against the actual table. Possibly the table
was altered, or the column was renamed. You can use GBase SQL to
check column names under the Tables menu, Info selection.


-2856	The TODAY attribute may be assigned only to date columns.

The TODAY function (not attribute) returns the value of today's date.
That value can be assigned only to a field that has the DATE or
DATETIME data type. The field in this statement has a different type.
Automatic data conversion is provided in 4GL programs, but not in the
context of a form.


-2857	There can be only one dominant composite column in a join list.

This statement defines a join list, a list of two or more column names
that are related to the same form field. In such lists, an asterisk
preceding a column name indicates that column is the dominant column in
a verify join. Only one such column is allowed in any join, but two or
more are present in this list. Review the documentation on verify
joins, and choose a single dominant table.


-2858	The table table-1 is joined to the table table-2, but its joined
columns do not belong to a composite key.

You have defined two or more different joining columns between the two
indicated tables. However, no composite index exists on the joining
columns. Such an index is required to ensure that a composite key
exists; that is, that any combination of values from the joining
columns will occur only once. Review the two or more ATTRIBUTES
statements that define join columns for these two tables. Make sure
that they are as you intended; for example, make sure that you intended
to join two tables on two or more columns, instead of joining three or
more tables on one column each. If you intended the composite key, then
use the CREATE INDEX command to create a composite unique index on
those columns for at least table1.


-2859	The column column-name is a member of more than one
table -- you must specify the table name.

Two or more tables that are named in the TABLES section have columns
with the name shown. You must make clear which table you mean. To do
this, write the table name as a prefix of the column name, as
table.column, wherever this name is used in the form specification.


-2860	There is a column/value type mismatch for column-name.

This statement assigns a value to the field with the DEFAULT clause or
uses its value with the INCLUDE clause, but it does so with data that
does not agree with the data type of the field. Review the data type of
the field (which comes from the column with which it is associated),
and make sure that only compatible values are assigned.


-2861	You have exceeded the maximum of number tables.

A limit exists on the number of tables that can be in use at one time.
(This limit might be different on different host systems or with
different database servers.) Reduce the number of tables that you use
in the form.


-2862	The table table-name cannot be found in the database.

All tables used in a form must exist at the time that the form is
compiled, so that the compiler can verify the data types of the
columns. The indicated table does not exist in the database that is
named in the form. Check the spelling of the table name and database
name. If they are as you intended, either you are not using the version
of the database that you expected (check the value in the DBPATH
environment variable), or the database has been changed.

The tables that are specified in the TABLES section of the form exist,
but column-name, which is named in the ATTRIBUTES section, does not.
Check its spelling against the actual table. Possibly the table was
altered, or the column was renamed. You can use GBase SQL to check
column names under the Tables menu, Info selection.


-2863	The column column-name does not exist among the specified tables.

The tables that are specified in the TABLES section of the form exist,
but column-name, which is named in the ATTRIBUTES section, does not.
Check its spelling against the actual table. Possibly the table was
altered, or the column was renamed. You can use GBase SQL to check
column names under the Tables menu, Info selection.


-2864	The table table-name is not among the specified
tables.

The indicated table is used in this statement but is not defined in the
TABLES section of the form specification. Check its spelling; if it is
as you intended, add the table in the TABLES section.


-2865	The column column-name does not exist in the table
table-name.

Something in this statement implies that the column shown is part of
the indicated table (most likely the statement refers to
table-name.column). However, it is not defined in that table. Check
the spelling of both names. If they are as you intended, then check the
contents of the database; possibly the table has been altered or the
column renamed.


-2866	The NOW attribute may be assigned only to datetime
columns.

This message is not in use in any current product. SQL does not support
any NOW attribute or function; use the CURRENT function.


-2867	The CURRENT attribute may be assigned only to datetime
columns.

The CURRENT function (not attribute) produces the current date and time
as a DATETIME value, but the field that is referenced in this statement
does not have the DATETIME data type. Automatic data conversion is not
supported in this context. Review the statement to make sure that it
refers to the field that you intended, and revise the form to assign
DATETIME values only to DATETIME fields.


-2870	The subscripted column size does not match the space
allocated in the display field.

This attribute statement relates a substring of a column to a display
field. However, either the substring numbers are wrong (the first is
less than 1 or greater than the size of the column, the second is less
than the first), or they are correct but the number of characters that
they select is different from the size of the display field. Revise the
substring numbers to select exactly as many characters as the field
requires.


-2880	The word 'screen' or 'end' has been left out.

Every form specification must end in the keyword END and must contain
the keyword SCREEN. Both must begin in the first column of a line.
Review the contents of the form specification to make sure that all the
necessary sections are properly marked.


-2890	A screen definition must begin with a left curly bracket '{'.

Each screen layout must be enclosed in braces ({ }). The open brace
must be the first character on its line. Review the form specification
to make sure that the screen layout is punctuated properly.


-2892	The column column-name name appears more than once. If you wish
a column to be duplicated in a form, use the same display field label.

The expected way to display the same column in two or more places is to
put two or more fields in the screen layout, each with the same
tag-name. Then put a single statement in the ATTRIBUTES section to
associate that tag-name with the column name. The current column value
will be duplicated in all fields. If you intended to display different
columns, the column names as listed in the ATTRIBUTES section must
differ. If you intend to display different columns that happen to have
the same column-names, prefix each with its table-name.


-2893	The display field label tag-name appears more than once
in this form, but the lengths are different.

You can put multiple copies of a field in the screen layout (all will
display the same column), but all copies must be the same length.
Review the SCREEN section to make sure that, if you intended to have
multiple copies of one field, all copies are the same.


-2895	Display field length of field-size does not match
the database column length of column-size. This is a warning only.

The size of the character field that is defined in this statement (as
shown by its appearance in the SCREEN section) is different from the
size of the associate column. You specified the -v option to the form
compiler to request warnings of this type.


-2901	Field name contains two conflicting attributes, first and second.

This statement contradicts itself. The UPSHIFT and DOWNSHIFT attributes
cannot be applied to the same field; nor can NOENTRY and REQUIRED or
NOETNRY and VERIFY. Review the statement, and correct the selection of
attributes.


-2920	The column column is a dominant column but it is not indexed.
Performance will be much improved by creating an index on the column.

You have defined the indicated column as dominant in a verify join.
Whenever the operator enters a value in the field, it will be looked up
in this column. Such a lookup operation is very quick when an index is
present. No index on the column exists at this time. Without one, a
lookup might be extremely slow. Unless the field does not allow
operator input (in which case you should remove the asterisk) or the
table is very small (a few dozen rows at most), you should create an
index for this column before you put the form into use.


-2921	The database dbname is not compatible with the current version of
GBase SQL.

A prior version of GBase software created the database that is named
in the DATABASE statement in this form. Before the present system can
use the database, you must use the sqlconv utility to convert it.


-2930	Portions of the column name are displayed on the screen
more than once.

This form displays subscripted portions of the indicated column in
different fields. This situation is permitted; however, no single
character can appear in more than one field. That is, the subscripts
cannot overlap. For example, you can display name[25,49] in one field
and name[50,74] in another. You cannot display name[25,49] and
name[25,74] because some characters would be displayed twice.


-2931	There is an error in the format specification.

Check the content of the FORMAT string in this statement. It is not
correct for the data type; that is, it has characters other than # and
. for a numeric column, and it has an incorrect internal length for a
DATE column (for example, yyy, which calls for a three-digit year).


-2932	Formats may be specified only for float, smallfloat,
decimal, or date columns.

This attribute statement specifies a FORMAT string, but the data type
of the field is not one of the four that support formatting: FLOAT,
SMALLFLOAT, DECIMAL (or MONEY), and DATE. If this column is not
DISPLAYONLY, check that it has been associated with the right column
and that the column is defined in the database as you expected.


-2933	The format width is larger than the allocated display width.

The length of the FORMAT string that is specified for this field is
greater than the length of the field itself as shown in the SCREEN
section. Review the screen layout, and revise it or the format so that
they agree.


-2934	The format width is less than the allocated display width.

The length of the FORMAT string that is specified for this field is
less than the length of the field itself as shown in the SCREEN
section. Review the screen layout, and revise it or the format so that
they agree.


-2935	The number of lines specified with the '-l' option or
in the screen section must be a positive integer from 6 to 600.

The vertical size of the screen, as indicated in the SCREEN statement
or in the -l (lowercase L) command-line option, is out of range. Change
it to specify the expected size of the terminal where the form will be
used.


-2936	The number of columns specified with the '-c' option or
in the screen section must be a positive integer from 30 to 600.

The horizontal size of the screen, as indicated in the SCREEN statement
or in the -c command line option, is out of range. Change it to specify
the expected size of the terminal where the form will be used.


-2940	The column name appears both with and without subscripts.

This form displays all of the indicated column, and subscripted portion
of it, in different fields. You can display different, subscripted
parts of a column in different fields, but the parts cannot overlap.
That is, portions of a column cannot be displayed twice on the same
screen. Review all uses of the indicated column. Perhaps you did not
intend to name it in both places. Perhaps two or more columns of the
same name exist in different tables, and you need to use the table name
to distinguish them. Otherwise, use nonoverlapping subscripts on each
field of the column.


-2941	name is not a display field name on the form.

This statement refers to a field as name, but no such name is defined.
Check the spelling, and review the ATTRIBUTES section to see how the
field was defined.


-2943	You have exceeded the pseudo machine capacity.

The expression in this statement is too complex to process. Simplify
it, and recompile the form. (See also error message -2988.)


-2944	You may apply the after add, update, query, or remove commands to
a table only -- not a column.

The operations of Add, Update, Remove, and Query all apply to whole
rows. Consequently, these control blocks must list only table names,
not names of individual columns, in their opening command. Review the
names in this statement, and change column names to the names of their
tables.


-2945	You may apply the after add, update, query, or remove commands to
a table only -- not a column.

Aggregates (AVG, MIN, MAX, COUNT, TOTAL) can only be performed on
fields that are associated with tables (not on DISPLAYONLY fields), and
the tables must be listed in the opening command of the same control
block. Revise the form specification, and recompile.


-2946	You may not calculate an aggregate on the display-only field name.

Aggregates can only be performed on fields that are associated with
tables (not on DISPLAYONLY fields), and the tables must be listed in
the opening command of the same control block. Revise the form
specification, and recompile.


-2950	The column name has no section which starts at 1.  Remember that
the first subscript is one, not zero.

Multiple substrings from the same column are assigned to display
fields. However, the substrings do not cover adjacent, nonoverlapping
portions of the column. Either there is no first section (starting from
column 1), or one section overlaps another. Review the substrings that
are specified. Consider using a multiline edit field instead of a group
of substrings; it is simpler to code and provides better editing for
data entry.


-2951	The left and right delimiters must be specified in a two character
string.

The DELIMITERS instructions require a string of exactly two characters,
the left and right delimiter (marker) characters to be used when
displaying fields. The characters can be the same, but there must be
two of them.


-2952	In order to use a picture, the picture length must be the same as
the display field length.

The string that is specified with the PICTURE attribute must have
exactly the same length as the field as depicted in the SCREEN section.
Review the definition of this field, and make the two lengths agree.


-2953	The name name is not a database column in this form.

All the columns that are named in a COMPOSITES list must be defined in
the ATTRIBUTES section. Check the spelling of all the names, and make
sure that they have been defined.


-2954	You have exceeded the maximum of number control instructions.

The INSTRUCTIONS section of this form has exceeded the ability of the
form compiler to handle it. Remove some instructions to simplify the
form.


-2955	The name field-tag is not a displayed field in this form.

The name that is shown appears in the ATTRIBUTES section but nowhere in
the SCREEN section. Check the spelling of the name; it is wrong in one
of those places, or it has been omitted from the screen layout.


-2956	You may not set display field field-tag to a value because
none of its associated database columns belong to the same table as
table, nor is it a variable display-only field.

You cannot assign values in a LET statement across tables. All columns
that are associated to the field-tag in a LET statement must belong to
tables that are named in the opening command of the control block, or
it must be a display-only field.


-2957	You may not set the next field to that-tag because none of its
associated database columns belong to the same table as this-tag.

The field that is named in a NEXTFIELD statement must be associated
with the same table as the current field. Review the relationships
between columns and tables in this form, and revise it.


-2958	You may have a maximum of ten parameters in a C-function.

This improper call to an external C function has too many parameters.
Find some way to pass the same information in fewer parameters.


-2959	Two tables may join with a maximum of limit column pairs,
including all components of composite columns.

A limit exists on the number of columns that are involved in a join.
This limit includes both the join columns that are named in an
ATTRIBUTES statement and those that are named in a COMPOSITES statement
for the same table.


-2970	The column name joins with other columns, but it is not indexed.
It is recommended that columns be indexed for cross-table queries.
Performance will be much improved by creating an index.

The presence of an index on at least one of the columns that are
involved in a join can make join operation much faster. However, an
index is not required when one or both tables are small (dozens of
rows). Consider creating an index on all join columns before you put
the form into production.


-2971	This column is not a character column, and therefore cannot be
subscripted.

This statement contains a subscript, a pair of numbers in square
brackets, after a column name. However, the data type of the column is
not CHAR, VARCHAR, or TEXT. Only such columns can be subscripted. Check
that you named the correct column. If you did, check its definition in
the database.


-2972	This column cannot be right justified or zero-filled because its
displayed width does not match the actual column width.

In order to use the RIGHT or ZEROFILL attributes, make sure that the
field size (as depicted in the SCREEN section) is exactly the same as
the width of the database column. Review this statement, the screen
layout, and the definition of the table in the database to make sure
these sizes agree.


-2973	There may be only one dominant column in a display field description.

This statement defines a join list, a list of two or more column names
that are related to the same form field. In such lists, an asterisk
that precedes a column name indicates that column is the dominant
column in a verify join. Only one such column is allowed in any join,
but this list contains two or more. Review the documentation on verify
joins, and choose a single dominant table.


-2975	The display field label tag-name has not been used.

The indicated name was defined in the SCREEN section but not in the
ATTRIBUTES section. Review the tags in each section, and revise the
form so that all tags are defined.


-2976	The end of the form has been reached prematurely.

This form specification has a SCREEN section but no TABLES or
ATTRIBUTES sections. Complete the form specification.


-2977	Table table1 cannot be a master of table table2 because
they do not join.

The two tables that are named in a MASTER OF instruction must be
joined. A join between tables is expressed by naming columns from both
tables in one statement in the ATTRIBUTES section. Check the spelling
of the table names here, and review the attribute statements.


-2978	The column column1 and the column column2 cannot be joined columns
because their types or lengths are different.

The columns in a join must contain data from the same domain. The fact
that these columns have different types or (if they are character
columns) different lengths indicates that their contents are not from
the same domain. Check the spelling of the column names to make sure
that you named the correct columns. Review the design of the database,
and make sure that these tables are meant to be joined on these
columns.


-2984	The table identifier table is defined more than once.

Correct the statements in the TABLES section so that each table is
defined just once. Possibly you have defined an alias that is the same
as a real table name.


-2985	The table identifiers name1 and name2 represent the same table.

In the TABLES section, these two names are defined in such a way that
they refer to the same database table. One or both of them is a table
alias. Change the statements so that each name stands for just one
table and each table has just one name.


-2986	The form specification has exceeded the maximum of limit
master/detail pairs.

A restriction exists on the number of master-detail pairs that can be
supported in one form. You must find a way to simplify the form.


-2987	The form specification has exceeded the maximum of limit screens.

A restriction exists on the number of screen layouts that can be
supported in one form. You must find a way to simplify the form.


-2988	FORMBUILD has run out of memory.

The form compiler cannot get enough data memory to process the form
specification. You must find a way to simplify the form.


-2989	The column name is a reference column, but it is not indexed.
It is recommended that reference columns be indexed for lookups.
Performance will be much improved by creating an index.

You have defined the indicated column as a reference column using the
LOOKUP attribute. Whenever the operator enters a value in the field, it
will be looked up in this column. Such a lookup operation is quick when
an index is present, but no index on the column exists at this time.
Without one, a lookup might be extremely slow. Unless the field does
not allow operator input (in which case you should remove the asterisk)
or the table is very small (a few dozen rows at most), you should
create an index for this column before you put the form into use.


-2990	The columns column1 and column2 are not in the same database table.

All columns that are cited in a single LOOKUP attribute must belong to
the same table. Check the spellings of the names, and make sure that
they are the columns you intended.


-2991	Warning: Only the first screen of your multiple-screen form
will be displayed under 4GL.

This warning appears when you use the 4GL forms compiler to compile a
multipage PERFORM screen. A 4GL program can display only the first page
of a multipage form. If the form specification has more than one SCREEN
section, it has been purposely divided into multiple pages, and you
will have redesign it for 4GL. If it has only a single screen layout,
the 4GL forms compiler has split it into two pages because it will not
fit on the screen. The form design might not allow for the four screen
lines that 4GL reserves.


-2992	The display label name has already been used.

The forms compiler indicates that name has been defined twice. These
names must be defined uniquely in the form specification. Review all
uses of the name to see if one of them is incorrect.


-2993	There is a circular join path specified in the form.

This form defines a series of three or more joins such that table A
joins to table B, table B joins to table C, and table C joins to table
A. The circularity might not be obvious due to the use of table-alias
names. Review all the statements in the ATTRIBUTES section and any
COMPOSITES statements, and draw a diagram of the join relationships.
Then modify the form so that no circular joins are created.


-2994	The form has exceeded the maximum number of joins between tables.

A limit exists on the number of joins that can be specified. You must
find a way to simplify the form.


-2995	The form has exceeded the maximum number of tables contained in joins.

A limit exists on the number of tables that can be contained in one
join. You must find a way to simplify the form.


-2996	The unanticipated error number os-error has occurred. 
        Contact Technical Support.

The error number that is displayed came from the host operating system.
RDS was at one time the name of GBase Software. This error should
not occur. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-2997	See error number.

The database server returned the error number that is shown. Look it up
in this document. Also look for other error messages that might give
more information or contact GBase Technical Support.


-2998	Operating system error os-error: text.

The error that is displayed came from the host operating system. This
error should not occur. If the error recurs, note all circumstances
and contact GBase Technical Support.


-2999	SQL server terminated.

The application has lost contact with the database server. Someone
might have shut down the database server, or an internal error might
have damaged a pipe between the application and the database server. In
a local area network system, the database server process or thread in
the file server might have been terminated, or the file server might be
down. Look for other messages, especially operating-system messages,
that might give more detail.


-3000	ISAM or system error number number.

Look up the error number in the finderr utility.


-3001	There are no forms in the current directory.

You can run only forms that are present in the current directory or a
directory that is named in your DBPATH environment variable. Change
directories to the one that contains the desired forms, or change the
contents of DBPATH.


-3002	There are no BLOB fields to view.

You selected the View menu option. This option lets you view the
contents of TEXT and BYTE fields of a form, but this form has none.