---
title: 14.Error (-3001)-(-5000)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:46:36.836Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:46:34.634Z
---

-3001	There are no forms in the current directory.

You can run only forms that are present in the current directory or a
directory that is named in your DBPATH environment variable. Change
directories to the one that contains the desired forms, or change the
contents of DBPATH.


-3002	There are no BLOB fields to view.

You selected the View menu option. This option lets you view the
contents of TEXT and BYTE fields of a form, but this form has none.

-3003	This BLOB field is empty.

You selected the View menu option. The cursor is positioned in a field
that represents a BYTE column, and you pressed the ! key to edit the
contents of the field. However, the field is null; no data exists to
view. Use Query to select a row that includes nonnull data in this
field.


-3005	You do not have permission to access the form form-name.

The form file form-name does exist; however, your account does not have
operating-system permissions to read and write it.


-3006	An unknown code has been found in the .frm file. Recompile your form before running it again.

Recompile the form to make sure that the .frm file has not been
corrupted. If the same error occurs, check that you are running
FORMBUILD and PERFORM products at the identical version level (version
numbers are displayed when the commands are executed from the command
line if you do not use the -s option). If the error recurs, note
all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-3007	Your form is incompatible with the current version
of PERFORM. Recompile your form before running it again.

Use FORMBUILD to compile the form, then run PERFORM again.


-3010	Database database-name not found.

The database that is named in the DATABASE section of the form could
not be opened. Either it could not be found, or your account has not
been granted CONNECT privilege for it. You can use GBase SQL to
separate these cases. Use Select option from the Database menu. If
database-name is listed, the database can be found but could not be
opened.

The database server looks for a database first in the current directory
and then in directories that are named in the DBPATH environment
variable. Check to see if database-name.dbs exists in one of those
directories.


-3011	A table is locked -- no reading or writing is permitted.

Because another user has locked a table in exclusive mode, PERFORM
cannot continue. Rerun the transaction when the table is not locked.


-3019	Unanticipated error number has occurred; call Technical Support.

Note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-3020	The table table-name is not in the database. Build your form again.

A table that is listed in the TABLES section of the form cannot be
found. Review the DATABASE statement to ensure that the form is using
the correct database. If so, and if the table name is spelled as you
intended, the table has been dropped or renamed. You can use
GBase SQL to check table names under Info selection in the Tables
menu. Revise the form to use the correct name.


-3030	The column column-name is not in the database. Build your form again.

The tables that are specified in the TABLES section of the form do
exist, but the column column-name, which was named in the ATTRIBUTES
section, does not. Check the spelling of column-name against the
actual table. The table might have been altered, or the column may have
been renamed. You can use GBase SQL to check column names under Info
selection in the Tables menu. Revise the form to use the correct column
name.


-3031	The form form-name cannot be found or opened.

PERFORM cannot locate the compiled form form-name.frm in the current
directory or in a directory that is named in the DBPATH environment
variable. Or if it did find the file, it could not open it. Check the
spelling of the name. Verify that the file exists, and check that your
account has read access to it.


-3035	The column column-name has changed column type. Build your form again.

The column column-name, which is named in the ATTRIBUTES section of the
form, no longer has the data type that it had when the form was
compiled (the table has been altered since). Check the present data
type; then examine the form specification to make sure that it will
display the column in a field of the appropriate size. Modify the form
as required, and rebuild it.


-3037	The column column-name is not a composite column. Build
your form again.

The column column-name is mentioned as part of a COMPOSITE in the
INSTRUCTIONS section of the form specification. However, no composite
index (an index over all the columns of a composite key) exists over
this column and its fellows in the database. After the form was
compiled, the composite index was dropped. Either it should be
restored, or the form should be revised.


-3050	Operating system error. Cannot open a temporary file.

PERFORM is trying to open a temporary file that it created earlier.
Look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information. Possibly you have exceeded a limit on the number of open
files. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-3060	Operating system error. Cannot create a temporary file.

PERFORM is trying to create a temporary file but cannot. On UNIX
systems, check that your account is allowed to write in the /tmp
directory or the directory that is named in the DBTEMP environment
variable and that the directory is not full. Possibly you have exceeded
an operating-system limit on the number of open files. In that case,
you will have to reduce the number of tables that are used in this
form.


-3081	The specified output file name has a bad extension.

The output filename cannot end in any of the following suffixes:
.dat, .idx, .aud, .per, .frm, .ace, .arc, .sql, or .unl.

Select a different filename.


-3082	No program specified to edit this BYTE field.

The form user has keyed! in the display of a BYTE field. However, no
program= attribute was defined for this field.


-3101	The column column-name does not allow null values.

When you added data to a table, you did not specify data for the column
shown. However, that column is defined in the database as not allowing
null values. You cannot add the row unless you supply a value.


-3120	Error in field.

The data that is entered into the current field is not appropriate for
the data type of the field.


-3200	There are no rows in the current list.

You must first query the table before you execute the UPDATE, REMOVE,
NEXT or PREVIOUS command.


-3210	The current row position contains a deleted row.

Another user has just deleted the row now displayed. That row no longer
exists. You cannot use the UPDATE, REMOVE, NEXT, or PREVIOUS commands
until you use QUERY to display a valid row.


-3260	This is an invalid value -- it does not exist in table-name table.

This column has a verify join with a column in table table-name. Any
value that is entered in this field must be found in that table. The
value just entered was not found. Enter a correct value.


-3261	Invalid value -- its composite value does not exist in table-name table.

This column is listed with others as a COMPOSITE in the INSTRUCTIONS
section of the form specification. It is shown there as needing to be
verified against matching columns of table table-name. The value you
have entered, considered with the other values in the composite, does
not occur in table-name.


-3265	A required index on column-name is missing. Restore.

All dominant columns (those with asterisks before their names) in
verify joins must be indexed. Perhaps the index has been dropped since
the form was compiled. Re-create the index, and run the form again.


-3300	There are no more rows in the direction you are going.

You reached the beginning or the end of the current list of rows. You
can start a new query with the QUERY command, or use the PREVIOUS or
NEXT command to reverse through the list the other way.


-3400	There are no rows satisfying the conditions.

No rows in the database match the values that are entered in the form.
Enter different values, and query again.


-3420	This value is not among the valid possibilities.

A list or range of acceptable values has been established for this
column (via an INCLUDE attribute in the form-specification file). You
must enter a value within the acceptable range.


-3421	The joined field table.column cannot be selected by the current user.

This form queries the column in the table shown in joining two tables.
However, your account name does not have SELECT privilege for that
table and column. Contact the owner of the table or a Database
Administrator to be given this privilege.


-3430	This field requires an entered value.

The row cannot be added to the table until a value has been entered in
the indicated field. A REQUIRED attribute in the form-specification
file has been associated with the column. Enter a value in the field.


-3450	Someone else has deleted a row which is in your list.

Another user, accessing a table that is queried by your form, has
deleted a row that your latest query selected. Restart your query to
get an accurate selection of rows. Version 4.0 and earlier of PERFORM
might return this error message when you query a view. Early versions
of the product did not support views.


-3451	This form has no fields requiring data entry.

None of the fields in this form specification permit data entry; they
are all marked as either LOOKUP or DISPLAYONLY without the ALLOWING
INPUT keywords.


-3452	Add, Update and Remove operations not allowed on a remote table.

The table that is being queried is in a database that is external to
the current database (the one that is named in the DATABASE section of
the form). Such tables cannot be modified. (This message is not
currently used. You might encounter it with products of Version 4.0 or
earlier.)


-3460	This row has been locked by another user -- try again later.

Another individual is currently using the table. Wait a few moments,
and reenter your statement.


-3500	The two entries were not the same. Try again.

To guard against typographical errors, you must enter the value in this
field twice. The values that are entered must be identical. Carefully
reenter the data. (A VERIFY attribute in the form-specification file
has been associated with this column.)


-3600	No detail table has been specified for this table.

You must first establish this table as the master of another table in
the INSTRUCTIONS section of the form.


-3610	No master table has been specified for this table.

You must first establish this table as the detail of another table in
the INSTRUCTIONS section of the form.


-3620	You do not have permission to write into this table.

You do not have insert or update privilege for the table, so you cannot
insert or update a column. Check with the owner of the table or the
person who has Database Administrator (DBA) privilege for the database
for the necessary permission.


-3630	Operating system error. Cannot write into a temporary file.

PERFORM earlier created a temporary file but now cannot write into it.
The most likely cause of this error is that the disk has filled up.
Alternatively, another user might have deleted the temporary file after
it was created.


-3650	You must first remove table-name rows which join this row.

The row you wish to remove is the dominant member of a verify join. You
cannot remove this row without first removing any rows that join it.


-3651	You have exceeded the number of opened tables allowed by your system.

Executing the statement would require that PERFORM exceed an operating
system limit on the number of open files. You will have to reduce the
number of tables that are included in the form specification.


-3660	You must first update table-name rows which join this row.

The row you wish to update is the dominant member of a verify join. You
are not allowed to change a row value in this column that would
invalidate joined rows in other tables. You must first update the rows
in table-name that join this column.


-3670	Operating system error. Cannot seek into a temporary file.

Earlier PERFORM created a temporary file; now it cannot change the file
position in that file. Perhaps another user deleted the file after it
was created. Look for messages from the operating system that might
give more detail on the problem.


-3680	PERFORM has run out of memory.

PERFORM cannot get the memory data space it needs. You will have to
reduce the complexity of the form.


-3690	Detail cannot be executed -- tables first and second do not join.

A master-detail relationship for these two tables is specified in the
INSTRUCTIONS section of the form. However, the two tables do not join.
Add a join attribute in the ATTRIBUTES section.


-3700	Permission not granted to allow reading of table-name.

Your account has not been granted SELECT privilege for the table
table-name. The owner of the table, or a person who has Database
Administrator (DBA) privilege for the database, can grant this
privilege level to you.


-3710	Permission not granted to allow update of table-name.

Your account has not been granted UPDATE privilege for the table
table-name. The owner of the table, or a person who has Database
Administrator (DBA) privilege for the database, can grant this
privilege level to you.


-3720	Permission not granted to allow add of table-name.

Your account has not been granted INSERT privilege for the table
table-name. The owner of the table, or a person who has Database
Administrator (DBA) privilege for the database, can grant this
privilege level to you.


-3730	Permission not granted to allow remove of table-name row.

Your account has not been granted DELETE privilege for the table
table-name. The owner of the table, or a person who has Database
Administrator (DBA) privilege for the database, can grant this
privilege level to you.


-3731	Cannot open the table table-name.

The database server cannot open the file that represents this table.
You might have exceeded an operating-system limit on open files; if
that is the case, you will have to reduce the number of tables that are
included in the form. However, first make sure that a file exists for
this table in the database directory (its name is database-name.dbs)
and that your account has read access to it. The name of the table file
is composed of table-name, a 3-digit number, and the suffix .dat.


-3750	Command aborted.

No current GBase product returns this message. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-3751	Type carriage return to continue.

No current GBase product returns this message. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-3752	You cannot use this editing feature because a picture exists.

This field is defined (in the form-specification file) with a PICTURE
attribute to specify its format. You cannot use certain editing keys
(for example, CTRL-A, CTRL-D, and CTRL-X) while you are editing such a
field. Use only printable characters and backspace to enter the value.


-3754	You have exceed the pseudo machine stack space.

Reduce the complexity of the form. In particular, reduce the level of
nesting of loops and IF statements, and break very complicated
expressions in LET statements up into simpler ones.


-3755	The selected display-only field tagname cannot be accessed.

The field tag name that is passed to the C function pf_nxfield() is the
name of a display-only field. Because the user is not allowed to enter
data in a display-only field, the cursor cannot be located in one.
Check the tag name that is supplied; if it is the one that you
intended, review the attributes of that field, and find out why it has
been set display-only.


-3756	The selected field tag-name cannot be assigned a value at this time.

The specified field is not in the current table. The cursor is not
allowed to enter such fields, and values cannot be set in them.


-3757	A conversion error has occurred for the field tag-name.

The data type of the value that is passed to pf_putval() could not be
converted into the data type of the screen field tag-name. Review the
value and the valtype flag versus the data type of the field in the
form definition.


-3758	The next selected field tag-name is not in the current table.

The field tag name that is passed to the C function pf_nxfield() is the
name of a field that is not in the current table. The cursor is not
allowed to enter such fields.


-3759	The display field field-name does not exist in the form.

The field tag name that is passed to the C function pf_nxfield() is not
defined in this form. Review the string that is passed; if it is as you
intended, inspect the form definition to see what has been changed. A
common error is to confuse the tag name, which is used in the screen
layout and to the left of the equal sign in the ATTRIBUTES section,
with the field name, which is the column name used to the right of the
equal sign in the ATTRIBUTES section. The latter is used when
referring to fields.


-3760	Matching may not be used between non-character fields or expressions.

An IF-THEN-ELSE statement in the INSTRUCTIONS section of the form uses
the keyword MATCHES to compare two fields. However, at least one of the
fields is not a character field, and you can use MATCHES only with
character fields. Review all uses of MATCHES in the INSTRUCTIONS
section to make sure it is applied only to character fields.


-3761	ERROR -- attempt to divide by zero has occurred.

A division expression in the INSTRUCTIONS section has a zero divisor.
Review all uses of division in the INSTRUCTIONS section, and look for
any that might have a denominator of zero (possibly the denominator is
a field into which the user entered a zero). Protect these expressions
with tests for zero using IF-THEN-ELSE.


-3762	The user function funcname defined in the form could not be found
in the C function definition table userfuncs.

The INSTRUCTIONS section of the form includes a call to a function
funcname, and sperform assumes that this is the name of an external C
function. However, the name and address of each such function must
appear in a static array that is named userfuncs. That array, along
with the computer code of the external functions, is linked with a
custom version of sperform. Because name did not appear in the array,
sperform cannot call it.

Check that you are executing the correct, customized version of
sperform (the original version of the program has no external functions
linked to it). Check to see if funcname is correctly spelled. Then
examine the source of the C functions to make sure that the userfuncs
array is defined correctly.


-3763	This program has an invalid serial number. Consult your
installation instructions.

The GBase software product has been improperly installed. Review the
installation procedure. If you need help, contact GBase Technical Support.


-3764	Screen too small. Must be at least 6 lines and 30 columns.

PERFORM cannot operate in a screen or window that is smaller than 6
lines by 30 columns. You must increase the size of the terminal window
in which you are executing PERFORM. The absolute minimum is 6 lines by 30
columns. However, the window must also be large enough to contain
the form that will be displayed.


-3765	Form image too large to fit in the screen window.

The screen image as defined in the form file is larger (either wider or
taller) than the dimensions of the current window. If the current
window is the main window, its size is set by the dimensions of the
terminal in use. If the current window was opened with OPEN WINDOW, you
should specify more rows or columns. Review the form file, and either
reduce the size of the screen image or display it as a bigger window.


-3766	Usage: SPERFORM [-s] [-d database] filename . . .

This message displays the command-line option of the sperform program.


-3767	An unknown option option name was found on the command line.

Make sure that you typed the correct command-line option.


-3999	System internal error in file filename at line number.

This error should not occur. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-4000	Intrinsic member functions cannot be declared as SHARED.

This statement attempts to declare one of the intrinsic members of this
class (the class constructor, or the !copy() or !derive() function) as
SHARED. You can declare these functions in order to extend them, but
the declaration cannot specify SHARED.


-4001	Fundamental type name "type" cannot be used as a class name.

This CLASS statement attempts to declare a class with the same name as
a built-in data type such as INTEGER. Find a different name for your
class.


-4002	Argument n of function "name" is not convertible to its formal
parameter's type.

The indicated argument expression or default argument expression is not
compatible with the declared type of that function argument. Review the
declaration of the function to see what type is expected.


-4004	Member "name" of class "class-name" cannot be accessed in this context.

The compiler is aware of the member, but the access control for the
member makes it inaccessible in the statement. Check for a PUBLIC,
PRIVATE, or PROTECTED declaration. Member variables default to
PROTECTED access, but member constants and member functions default to
PUBLIC.


-4005	You cannot redefine private base member function "name".

This FUNCTION declaration in a class declaration names a member that is
inherited from a base class of this class. However, that inherited name
is declared as PRIVATE, so it cannot be overridden in this class.
Review the declarations of all base classes; then choose a name for
your function that will be unique to this class.


-4007	Record member "name" is undefined.

This statement refers to record.name. While the variable record is
indeed a record, name is not the name of one of its component fields.
Find the definition of record (it might be in the GLOBALS file), and
verify the names of its fields. Then correct the spelling of name.


-4009	Non-shared member "name" cannot be used in default values.

A default value expression in this function declaration refers to the
value of a normal member variable of this class. This action is not
supported. Default value expressions can refer to variables, but they
must be declared at the module level or be shared members of classes.


-4010	Include file "pathname" is not found.

This INCLUDE statement names a file that the compiler cannot find. If a
complete pathname is used, the file does not exist. Check the spelling
of all the directories and the filename. If only a filename is given,
that file could not be found in the current directory, in
$GBASEDBTDIR/incl, or in any directory that is specified in a -H
compiler argument. Perhaps one of these arguments was omitted or
misspelled.


-4011	Class "name" is not declared.

This statement refers to a class of the indicated name, but no such
class has been declared to this point in the source module. Check the
spelling of the name. Make sure that all desired include files have
been included.


-4012	You can only specify a base clause for class constructors.

This function declaration is followed by a colon, class-name, and
argument list (in short, a base clause). This syntax is used only when
declaring the constructor function for a class (the function whose name
is the same as the name of the class), in order to specify function
arguments to the constructor of the base class.


-4013	Invalid intrinsic member function "!name".

The supported intrinsic member functions are !copy(), !derive(), and
the class-name (the constructor). No other functions can be declared
with an initial exclamation mark. Check the spelling of name. If it is
not one of the supported names, declare the function as a normal member
function.


-4014	You cannot specify the RETURNING type for intrinsic member functions.

This declaration of an intrinsic member function includes a RETURNING
clause. This action is not supported. The compiler defines the returned
value from an intrinsic member function. Omit the RETURNING clause.


-4016	Each class declaration must have at least one member function.

This class declaration contains no member functions. A class must
contain at least one, because the point at which the first (or only)
member function is defined is also the point at which the class itself
is defined. If the class has no other members, declare its constructor
function. Because the constructor is declared, it must also be defined
(although the definition need not contain any statements beyond
FUNCTION and END FUNCTION unless you wish).


-4018	The columns specified in the THRU option do not belong to the same
table.

This statement refers to some table first THRU (or THROUGH) last;
however first and last are not both columns in that table. Check the
spelling of these column names. Make sure that the correct database is
current at this point in the compilation (the most recent preceding
DATABASE statement).


-4019	The columns specified in the THRU option appear in the reverse order.

This statement refers to some aggregate (table, record, or object) with
the qualification "first THRU (or THROUGH) last." However, first and
last do not appear in that order in the aggregate; last precedes first.
Check the spelling of the two names. Make sure that the correct
database is current at this point in the compilation (the most recent
preceding DATABASE statement).


-4020	Function "member" is not a member of class "class".

This statement tries to invoke class::member(), either directly or as
object.member(). However, no such member function is available from
that class. Check the spelling of the member name and the class or
object name. If the reference is class::member(), review the
declaration of the class for the correct spelling of the names of its
members. If the reference is through an object, make sure the object is
declared as having the class you intended. You can only call members of
the stated class (the class it is declared to have) of an object. If
you want to call a member of an actual class (the class that you think
will be present at execution time), use the CAST operator.


-4021	A class member cannot be named "SELF".

You cannot use SELF, regardless of letter case, as the name of a member
variable, member constant, or member function. The identifier SELF is a
built-in identifier that New Era provides automatically. You can refer
to SELF to make your code more readable when a member has the same name
as an identifier that is declared as in the global or module scope, or
to access a member when a local entity has the same name.


-4022	The reserved keyword "name" cannot be used as a 4GL identifier.

Keywords cannot be used to name a function, report, variable, or
constant. Consult the GBase 4GL Language Reference for a list of
reserved words.


-4023	A class cannot derive from itself.

This CLASS statement asserts that the class is DERIVED FROM itself.
This action is not supported. Either remove the clause, or name another
base class.


-4024	Identifier "name" has multiple declarations with different types.

Multiple declarations of a given name in a given scope must be
consistent (that is, they must have the same type). The identifier that
is shown has been declared with a different type.


-4025	Function "name" is already declared in the class.

A function with the specified name has already been declared in the
current class.


-4026	Member "name" is already defined in base class "class".

A derived class inherits all the members of its base classes. You
cannot add a member that has the same name as a member from the base
class.


-4029	The type of expression on which member "name" is selected is not
an object reference or record.

This statement refers to .name as if name were a member of a record or
of a class. However, the expression that precedes the dot is neither
the name of a record nor a reference to an object. If you think name is
a member of a record, check the definition of the record, and make sure
that its name is correctly spelled immediately preceding the dot. If
you think name is a class member, make sure that the dot is preceded by
an expression that yields a reference to an object of the right class.


-4030	Warning: Cannot further expand an expanded expression.

An expression cannot have multiple .* suffixes.


-4032	Warning: The structure part of the THRU member "name" is ignored.

The statement included a THRU phrase of the following form:

   rec.first THRU rec.last

The correct form is:

   rec.first THRU last

The logic is that first THRU last modifies rec.


-4033	Base member name "name" cannot be used for class name.

This statement attempts to declare a class name, but it also specifies
a DERIVED FROM clause. One of the members that is inherited from that
base class is called name. The name of a class cannot be the same as
the name of one of its members because the constructor function must
use that name. Review the inheritance for this new class, and then
choose a different name for it.


-4034	SQL statements and two-pass reports are not allowed when
compiling with the "-nosql" switch.

The compiler was invoked with the "-nosql" switch, but the source
included either explicit SQL statements or a two-pass report (which
involves SQL statements). Compiling with "-nosql" causes generation of
.c code (instead of .ec code) in which no SQL statements are allowed.


-4035	Function "name" cannot be redefined in a derived
class "class" with different access permissions.

The parent class of the function "name" has an access permission
(PRIVATE, PROTECTED, or PUBLIC) different from this declaration.


-4036	Function "name" cannot be redefined in a derived class
"class" with different scope of reference.

The base class of the function "name" is declared as SHARED and "name"
is not, or "name' is declared as SHARED and its base class is not.


-4037	Multiple declarations of function "name".

Although you can declare multiple distinct versions of a user-defined
function, you cannot do so for functions such as a name that GBase software defines.


-4041	Including "file" again will cause an infinite loop.

This INCLUDEAGAIN statement specifies a file that includes itself. If
you force it to be included, a loop will follow. Make sure that this is
the file you intended to include. Review the contents of the file.


-4042	This form of declaration can only appear in the global (module) scope.

The declaration for identifier::identifier can appear only in the
global scope.


-4043	Illegal EXTERNAL declaration.

This statement tries to declare an EXTERNAL classname::membername. A
program cannot use a global EXTERNAL declaration to declare a shared
member variable. To accomplish this, include the class description of
which it is a SHARED member.


-4044	Member "name" not defined in class "class".

This statement tries to access class::name. However, no such variable
or constant is defined for that class. Check the spelling of the member
name and the class or object name. If the reference is class::name,
review the declaration of the class for the correct spelling of the
member names. If the reference is through an object, make sure that the
object is declared as having the class that you intended.


-4045	Member "name" is defined in class "class", but not as a
variable or constant.

The identifier name is defined in the class, but as something other
than a variable or a constant, such as a member function. Check the
spelling of the member name and the class or object name.


-4046	Formal declaration appeared previously for this informal function
definition.  The formal declaration is invalidated.

A formal declaration for this function appeared previously in this
source module. At this point, a definition in the informal function
syntax appears.


-4047	Mixed informal and formal function declaration syntax.
Return type is ignored.

A function declaration has blended informal (FUNCTION program block)
and formal (FUNCTION prototype) syntax. The parenthesized list of
arguments gave only names, with the types to be defined later in a
VARIABLE statement, but the declaration then continued with a RETURNING
clause, available only in the FUNCTION prototype style of declaration.
Consult the GBase 4GL Reference Manual.


-4048	Driver statements for a report are not allowed within the
body of that report.

This statement defines a record variable and uses initialization
expressions when it declares one or more members. This action is not
supported. You can use an initialization expression only when you
define a simple variable.


-4050	Function "name" has been used and hence declared as informal
before this formal declaration.

A call to this function appears prior to this declaration of it. Calls
to undeclared functions are supported only for compatibility with
previous versions of the 4GL language. When the compiler encountered
the call to the function, it assumed an informal declaration for it.
Move the declaration of the function to the top of the source module so
that it precedes calls to it.


-4051	Member "name" is defined in class "class", but not as a function.

This statement tries to invoke class::member(), either directly or as
object.member(). The class has a member of that name, but it is a
member variable, not a function. Check the spelling of the member name
and the class or object name. Review the declaration of the class for
the correct spelling of its member names.


-4052	Identifier "name" is not defined in the global scope.

A constant or variable is used that is not locally defined, so the
compiler assumes that it is to be globally defined but does not find it
there either.


-4053	Function "name" has already been declared with a different prototype.

The function that is described in this FUNCTION statement has already
been declared, and the previous declaration disagrees with this one in
the number or type of the arguments. Review included files for
declarations of this function, and make those statements consistent.


-4054	Function "name" has already been declared with a different return type.

The function that is described in this FUNCTION statement has already
been declared, and the previous declaration disagrees with this one in
the number or type of returned values. Review included files for
declarations of this function, and make those statements consistent.


-4055	Overriding the constructor of a base class is not allowed.

This FUNCTION declaration in a CLASS statement specifies a function
whose name is the same as the name of a base of this class. In other
words, you are trying to override the constructor function of a base
class. This action is not permitted. Review the names of members that
are inherited by this class, and choose unique names for its member
functions.


-4057	A class cannot be derived from a class with PRIVATE intrinsic functions.

This statement declares a new class with a DERIVED FROM clause.
However, the specified base class has one or more intrinsic functions
(class constructor, function such as !copy()) that are declared
PRIVATE. The intrinsic functions of a base class must be available for
calling from within the same functions of the derived class. Private
members cannot be called so; therefore, you cannot derive a class from
a base class with private intrinsic functions. Make sure that you
specified the correct base class, and review its declaration.


-4058	Symbol with constructor name is not a function.

A class name that is followed by the name of a member variable or
constant is not allowed in this context.


-4059	More actual arguments than formal arguments for function "name".

This statement invokes function name, but it specifies more argument
expressions than were called for in the declaration of function name.
Check the syntax of the argument list. Review the declaration of the
function for the expected number and type of arguments.


-4060	Fewer actual arguments than formal arguments without defaults for
function "name".

This statement invokes function name, but it specifies fewer argument
expressions than were called for in the declaration of function name.
Check the syntax of the argument list. Review the declaration of the
function for the expected number and type of arguments.


-4062	Warning: Informal function "name" returns (or is expected to return)
different number of results at different places.

The function name is called at more than one place in this source
module, and it is implied to return different numbers of arguments.
Possibly this correct; it is possible to write functions that return
different numbers of values in different circumstances. However, you
should check that this is the case and that the expected number of
values will be returned in each case.


-4063	Function "name" should not return any results.

This statement invokes the function "name" in a context that implies it
should return one or more values. However, that function has been
declared earlier in this module without a RETURNING clause or with
RETURNING VOID. Make sure that you have called the function you
intended; then review its declaration.


-4064	Type of returned value does not match the declared return type of
function "name".

The function "name" was not explicitly declared but has already been
called with one prototype, and the current call provides a different
prototype. Make sure that you have called the function you intended.
Then review its earlier call, or create an explicit declaration for
it.


-4065	Multiple exception handlers for the same exception class "name".

Two or more ON EXCEPTION statements exist for the same exception class
in this block. Only one can be invoked. Review the statements, make
sure that each specifies the correct exception class, and remove or
combine duplicate handlers.


-4066	RETURN statement not allowed in the body of intrinsic functions.

This statement is part of the definition of an intrinsic member
function (the class constructor, !copy, and so on). These functions do
not have explicit result values; or more precisely, code that the
compiler automatically generates produces their returned values. Delete
the RETURN statement.


-4067	This RETURN statement must provide a value.

This RETURN statement does not specify a value to return, but the
function was declared with a RETURNING clause that specified other than
VOID. If you want to terminate a function early without producing a
value, you could put a label on the END FUNCTION statement and use a
GOTO, or redesign the function logic to avoid the need for an early
exit.


-4068	Function "class::member" has not been declared as SHARED.

This statement uses the double-colon syntax to invoke a class-member
function. However, the specified member function was not declared as
SHARED. Only shared member functions can be called this way; normal
member functions must be called through a reference to an object
because they need the object reference as the value of their SELF
reference. Check that you have specified the class and member that you
intended; then review the declaration of that class.


-4069	The type of expression on which member function "name" is
called is not a class.

This statement attempts to invoke the specified function using either
the scope resolution (::) operator or the record membership (.)
operator. However, the name to the left of the scope resolution
operator is not the name of a class in which name is a member, or the
name to the left of the record membership operator is not the name of
an object reference of which name is a member. If you intended to call
name through a reference to an object, use object.name syntax.
Otherwise, make sure that you have specified the class and member names
that you intended, and review the declaration of the class.


-4070	Cannot assign to "SELF".

This statement would assign a new value to the implicit function
argument named SELF. Since the value of SELF is used implicitly in any
reference to a member of the self object, assignment to it is not
permitted.


-4071	Cannot assign to constant "name".

This statement would assign a new value to name, but name was declared
(in this scope) with a CONSTANT statement. Constants do not have memory
locations and cannot be assigned new values. Check that name is the
identifier you intended to use. Then review its declaration. Possibly
you want to assign into a module-level variable name, but it has been
declared as a local constant or a member constant that takes precedence
in this context.


-4072	Cannot expand structure with no members.

The statement attempted to perform an expansion, but it failed. The
expansion was of the form object.*, but the object that is named does
not have any public member variables, so the expansion set is empty.
Check that you are referring to the correct class and member.


-4073	Beginning or ending name in THRU specification is not a member
of the target record.

This statement makes a reference to some structure (table, record, or
object) with the qualification "first THRU (or THROUGH) last". However,
first or last does not appear as an element of that aggregate. Check
the spelling of the two names.


-4074	No more than two substring index expressions are allowed.

The substring qualifier consists of a pair of integer expressions,
separated by a comma and surrounded by brackets (example: name[1,23]).
The first value cannot be larger than the second. Both must be positive
and no larger than the string length (or the declared length of the
receiving data type).


-4075	Simple string expressions must have type CHAR or VARCHAR.

The compiler expected a string expression but found an expression that
was neither CHAR nor VARCHAR data type.


-4076	Class of CAST object must be a base of class specified as right
argument.

You cannot cast an object to any class; you can only cast it as being
of a class that is derived from its stated class. In the CAST
expression in this statement, the stated class of the object reference
on the left is not a base class of the class that is named as the right
argument. Review the expression to make sure that you have specified
the object that you intended (possibly you need to use parentheses
around the object reference) and the target class.


-4077	This operation is not valid on an operand of this type.

The operator cannot accept operands of this type. Correct any other
errors that might have been reported, and verify that this operator is
defined for operands of this type. Then compile the program again.


-4078	Operand is missing, or is of a type that is not supported.

The operator has been directed to operate on an invalid type. Perhaps a
function returns VOID, a blob (TEXT or BYTE), or FOREIGN result. IS
NULL and IS NOT NULL operators can operate upon TEXT or BYTE and FOREIGN
operands and can receive assignment from other operands of the same
type or NULL.


-4079	Operation is not allowed in index expressions.

An operation such as expansion (.*), COPY, NEW, or THRU was attempted
in an index expression.


-4080	Warning: Operation on NULL returns NULL.

While the compiler was optimizing expressions, it found an expression
composed of literal values, at least one of which was NULL.


-4081	Warning: A DATETIME expression cannot be negative.

A "-" operator occurred with a DATETIME operand. No negative points
exist in time. INTERVAL can be negative, but DATETIME cannot. Inspect
the syntax of the expression, and revise it to make it greater than or
equal to zero.


-4082	Operands of MATCH and LIKE operations must be of CHAR or VARCHAR type.

This statement uses the MATCH or LIKE operator with an argument
expression that is numeric or binary. No automatic conversion of data
types exists in this case. Examine the expression. If it is written as
you intended, revise it to assign the values to character variables
(thus forcing their conversion to character) before you use them with
MATCH or LIKE.


-4083	Warning: Initialization of external variables will be ignored.

This is only a warning. This statement declares a variable with both
the EXTERNAL keyword and an initialization expression. You can
initialize a variable only at the point where it is defined (that is,
where memory is allocated for it). This is a declaration, not a
definition, so the initialization is ignored.


-4085	Cannot output expression of this type.

The statement attempted to output an expression of a type that cannot
be output, such as FOREIGN, or an expression that includes an
invocation of a function that returns VOID.


-4091	Cannot assign to or refer to an array as a whole. Use
indexing to refer to individual elements.

The compiler attempted to convert the result of one expression to
conform with the type of another expression, and only one of them was
an ARRAY. Either both must be ARRAY type, or neither can be.


-4092	Type mismatch between CLASS and non-CLASS type.

The compiler attempted to convert the result of one expression to
conform with the type of another expression, and only one of them was a
CLASS. Either both must be CLASS type, or neither can be.


-4093	Type mismatch between RECORD and non-RECORD type.

The compiler attempted to convert the result of one expression to
conform with the type of another expression, and only one of them was a
RECORD. Either both must be RECORD type, or neither can be.


-4094	Length of compared CHAR or VARCHAR types is different.

The compiler was attempting to process a comparison between two string
types (such as comparing function signatures), and the two strings had
different bounds.


-4095	Records have different number of fields or fields of incompatible types.

In this multiple-field assignment the values that are being assigned do
not correctly match to the fields in the receiving record or object.
Examine the syntax of the value expression; then review the
declaration of the receiving variable.


-4096	Expression class must be equal to or derived from result class.

The statement attempted to assign a value of one class to an object of
a different class that is not derivable from the former class.


-4097	Multiple declarations for class "name".

This class has been declared previously in the source module (perhaps
in an included file). Only one declaration is allowed. Find all
declarations of the class, and reduce them to one.


-4098	Type of expression that is expanded must be class or record.

This statement refers to name.* (or uses THRU notation); however, the
name it refers to is not declared as a record or as an object of some
class. Check the spelling of the name, and review its declaration.


-4099	Type to CAST to must be a class.

The right argument to the CAST operator in this statement is not the
name of a class. Review the syntax and spelling of the statement. Make
sure that you have included all necessary header files to declare
classes.


-4100	Illegal definition of constant identifier "name".

A name already established as that of a constant identifier has
appeared as a declaration for a new identifier. Suppose, for example,
that maxval has already been declared to be a constant in class x, and
then a later declaration of VARIABLE x::maxval INT occurs.


-4103	The compiler detected an internal error in file "name" at line
number.

Consult your system administrator or contact GBase Technical Support to
report this error.

Note the specified file name and line number. Then report this internal
error.


-4104	The type of a column value does not match the type of a variable.

The INITIALIZE statement cannot establish a match between the type of
the column value and the type of the corresponding variable.


-4106	An expression of type DATETIME is expected.

In an EVENT statement, a function definition or declaration, an
EXTERNAL REPORT statement, a HANDLER statement, a function invocation,
or just an expression, the compiler found something other than a
DATETIME expression.


-4107	An expression of type INTEGER or SMALLINT is expected.

In an EVENT statement, a function definition or declaration, an
EXTERNAL REPORT statement, a HANDLER statement, a function invocation,
or just an expression, the compiler found something other than a
INTEGER or SMALLINT expression.


-4108	An expression of type DATE is expected.

In an EVENT statement, a function definition or declaration, an
EXTERNAL REPORT statement, a HANDLER statement, a function invocation,
or just an expression, the compiler found something other than a DATE
expression.


-4109	An expression of type DATE or DATETIME is expected.

In an EVENT statement, a function definition or declaration, an
EXTERNAL REPORT statement, a HANDLER statement, a function invocation,
or just an expression, the compiler found something other than a DATE
or DATETIME expression.


-4110	You cannot use more than one of the REPORT TO options in the
OUTPUT section of a REPORT routine.

In this OUTPUT section, the statement REPORT TO appears more than
once. Only one such specification is allowed. Remove all but one.


-4111	Warning: The function name is declared informally. For stronger
type checking, use a function defined formally.

The compiler detected that function name is an informal function.
Possibly the function returned a different number of arguments in
different circumstances, or the function has no prototype
declaration. Although nothing is wrong with defining a function this
way, informal functions are more prone to errors at runtime. It is
recommended that you use formal function declarations (along with
function prototypes) that are less error-prone and that the compiler
checks more rigorously.


-4117	A constant expression is expected here.

At least one of the values in one of the constant expressions in this
CONSTANT statement cannot be evaluated at compile time. See the information on
constant expressions in the GBase 4GL Reference Manual for
information on what types of operations can be used in constant
expressions.


-4118	Expressions of this data type are not allowed in constant expressions.

The indicated expression cannot be evaluated to a constant. Correct any
other errors that might have been reported against this expression, and
recompile.


-4119	Time-dependent functions must be used with the function
CONSTANT() in constant expressions.

One of the constant expressions in this CONSTANT statement refers to
function such as CURRENT, whose value depends on the current time. Such
functions have to be written as arguments to the CONSTANT() function,
which returns their value as of the time of compilation. (You cannot
use the time of execution in a constant value.)


-4120	Declare variable "name" either external or local to module,
but not both.

The specified variable has been declared or defined more than once. At
least one of those times declared it with EXTERNAL, and another was a
definition as a module variable (lacking either EXTERNAL or GLOBAL).
Review the declarations and definitions of name, recalling that some of
them might be in included files. If you intend name as a variable
private to this module, give it a unique name. (You can declare a
variable as EXTERNAL more than once, and you can declare it as EXTERNAL
and then define it as GLOBAL. Both of these things can happen as a
result of including header files, and they have well-defined meanings.
But it is contradictory to have a variable that is both external and
local to the module.)


-4121	Reports cannot be invoked through the CALL statement or in function
call expressions.

This statement attempts to call a report as if it were a function.
Although a report has the general form of a function definition, it
cannot be used like one. Check the names of functions that are called
in this statement; one is a report. If you meant to send a row of data
to the report, use the OUTPUT TO REPORT statement.


-4122	Parser limitations have been exceeded. Try to reduce complexity or
size of module.

The parser has returned an error that is NOT a syntax error. This error
could be caused by a parser-stack overflow (too many levels of nesting
within IF statements, WHILE statements, or the like) or by the parser
running out of parser-stack space (the module is too large). Try to
reduce the complexity of the code by splitting complex functions into
multiple functions or splitting the module into multiple modules.


-4123	CALL to function "name" must have a RETURNING clause.

The function name is declared as returning a result, so the CALL
statement must provide a RETURNING clause to receive the result.


-4125	Not defined/declared as a member in the class hierarchy "name".

The element indicated is either not declared, or is declared but not
defined, as a member of the class hierarchy "name."


-4126	Handler expected.

The identifier in the WITH clause of the HANDLE statement does not
identify a handler. If the identifier of the handler specifies a class,
check to see that the handler is declared as belonging to that class;
otherwise, check to see that it is declared as belonging to the
declared class of the target object.


-4127	Event expected.

The identifier before the WITH clause of the HANDLE statement does not
identify an event. The event must be declared in or inherited by the
declared class of the target object (which can be the SELF object).


-4128	Handler should be a member of either the same class, or else
a base class, of the object.

The indicated handler is declared in the program but is not a member of
same class as the object or of a base class from which the object is
derived.


-4129	Object name expected.

In the HANDLE statement, the event was prefixed with a "name." qualifier,
but the name is not that of a known object.


-4130	Handler can't be invoked directly.

A handler cannot be the object of an explicit CALL statement. The only
way to invoke a handler is through calling or posting the event to
which the handler has been assigned by a HANDLE statement.


-4131	No implied object for this non-shared function call ("SELF" is
not defined in this context).

No object reference has been supplied for this member function call. If
the member function call was made inside a member function, "self"
would be the implied object reference. This call was made in a
nonmember function body, so there is no implied object reference.


-4132	Incorrect base class name in base clause.

The program has declared a base class and has declared another class as
DERIVED FROM that base class. In the definition of the constructor for
the derived class, a base constructor clause specifies a call to a
function that is NOT the base class constructor. Suppose a derived
class is called "bread" and its base class is called "food"; if the
constructor for loaf should have a definition that begins FUNCTION
bread::bread(args1):food(args1). If it begins FUNCTION
bread::bread(args1):beverage(args1), the error message appears.


-4133	Only events can be posted.

A POST statement specified something other than event. Member
functions, handlers, and reports cannot be posted.


-4134	Class qualification not allowed when invoking an event.

The program specified a class name followed by a scope resolution
operator (::) and the name of an event. Replace the class name with the
name of the appropriate object.


-4135	Only shared class variables can be defined outside class declaration.

A class variable described as SHARED cannot be defined outside the
class declaration. The variable definition indicated is completing the
definition of a variable already described without a SHARED qualifier
in a class declaration.


-4136	Intrinsic function name() has wrong signature.

The correct signature for a !copy() function is FUNCTION !copy (obj
this_class), having one parameter whose type is an object of the
containing class. The correct signature for a !derive() function has no
arguments, only a pair of parentheses.


-4137	Embedded C code is allowed in compiled-4GL programs only.

A BEGIN_C and END_C block can be included only in compiled NewEra
programs. It is not valid in a interpreted (p-code) NewEra program.


-4138	Arrays of CHAR(*) are not allowed.

ARRAY [ ] OF CHAR(*) is not a valid type.


-4139	The constant "name" cannot be used within its own definition.

A constant cannot be used until it is defined. Therefore, a constant
cannot be used in its own definition.


-4140	Compiler cannot continue.

This error is output if an unrecoverable error occurs in the compiler
(that is, SEG VIO, BUS ERROR). This situation could occur if the user
terminated the compilation explicitly. Otherwise, if the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-4141	Unknown 4GL compiler flag "name" will be ignored.

This error occurs when the user invokes components of the NewEra
product directly, instead of through standard interfaces. The
executable fglc or fglp has been passed a compiler switch that is not
understood.


-4142	Functions called in the WHENEVER statement cannot require parameters.

The WHENEVER statement in the program has the form WHENEVER condition
CALL function, and the function being called is declared to have
parameters. The function call in this context cannot even have
parentheses, let alone arguments. Note that main has implicit
parameters, so it cannot be used in this form of the WHENEVER
statement.


-4143	Functions called in the WHENEVER statement cannot return values.

The WHENEVER statement in the program has the form WHENEVER condition
CALL function, and the function that is being called is declared with a
RETURNING clause. The function call in this context cannot return any
values.


-4144	A grammatical error has been found in an INCLUDEd file.  The
construct is not understandable in its context.

This general message shows an inability to parse a NewEra statement
from a file summoned by an INCLUDE statement. Start at the point where
the error was issued, and work backward in the program looking for
other error messages, and for missing punctuation, missing END
statements, and other mistakes. Often, a missing END IF is the culprit.
If the cause for this error is not obvious, concentrate on eliminating
any other, more specific error messages, and this one will probably go
away also.


-4145	Too many errors, compiler will quit.

Too many compiler errors have been detected. The compiler reports the
errors it has found to this point and quits.


-4146	Too many input files specified.

The executables fglc and fglp allow only 1 input file.


-4147	A RETURN statement is required in this function.

The function was declared with a RETURNING clause that specified other
than VOID, but no RETURN statement occurs in the body of the function.


-4148	CHAR (*) type is not allowed in SQL statements.

The CHAR(*) type is not allowed as an SQL type. It cannot be used in
CREATE TABLE, ALTER TABLE, and so on.


-4149	Expressions of this type are not allowed in SQL statements.

An identifier that is mentioned in an SQL statement is of a type such
as FOREIGN, or it names an object (a member of a class) or a record.


-4150	First parameter must be an ixRow object.

For calls to the built-in functions packrow() and unpackrow(), the
first argument must be of type ixRow.


-4151	Constructor cannot be called directly.

A constructor cannot be called directly using the CALL statement or as
the function in a function call expression. The constructor should be
invoked indirectly using the NEW operator.


-4152	Invalid begin or end name for THROUGH expression.

Invalid expressions have been used in a THROUGH expression in an SQL
statement.


-4153	Warning: The constant expression with the USING clause has been
evaluated based on the values of the environment variables at compile time.

This warning is generated when a value for a CONSTANT contains a USING
clause. The settings for environment variables DBFORMAT and DBMONEY can
affect the result of the USING operation. This warning reminds the user
that the USING clause in the CONSTANT statement will be evaluated at
compile time and might not be consistent with other USING clauses that
are evaluated at runtime.


-4154	The maximum size allowed for a constant of type CHAR or VARCHAR
is 255.

In a CONSTANT declaration or definition, the size of a character type
constant (CHAR or VARCHAR) cannot exceed 255.


-4155	Warning: Only static cursor names are allowed in the WHERE CURRENT OF
clause. Cursor name will be processed as a static cursor name.

In the UPDATE and DELETE statements, the WHERE CURRENT OF cursor-name
clause cannot cite a cursor name that has been declared as dynamic.


-4156	Warning: The loop counter may overflow.

This warning can occur for a FOR statement when the upper limit of the
FOR loop is within the STEP value of the maximum value of that type. As
an example, suppose the FOR statement tried to run IX from 1 to 32760
with a step of 20, and IX was declared as SMALLINT; the compiler would
issue the warning because IX would overflow without satisfying the loop
termination condition.


-4157	The statement is too complex. Try to simplify it.

This error occurs if a stack overflow is detected during compilation.
Under Windows, the stack size is limited. Try to reduce the complexity
of your code. Complex expressions, such as many string concatenations
('||'), can consume a large portion of the stack.


-4158	GBase FORM and WINDOW statements are not supported in this
product. Use the Visual Class Library for screen interaction.

The compiler encountered an OPEN FORM or OPEN WINDOW statement. In
NewEra, these functionalities are handled through Visual Class Library
objects. Consult the Graphical and Connectivity Reference Manual. Other
grammatical errors might be generated in addition to this one.
Replacing the offending statements with VCL calls and recompiling
should eliminate the additional messages.


-4159	Subscripting cannot be applied to the expression because it is
not a character or array reference.

The expression cannot be qualified by a subscript because the
expression is neither an ARRAY nor CHAR() type.


-4160	This expression cannot be used as the target of an assignment statement.

An illegal assignment was detected. For example, you declared abc to be
a constant, but here you attempted to assign a value to it. Some
statements that involve assignment: LET, SELECT...INTO, OPEN
CURSOR...INTO, FETCH INTO, FOREACH...INTO, FOR iterator (the iterator
is assigned values), INITIALIZE, and LOCATE. Only NewEra returns this
error.


-4161	This variable has not been defined as a record or object.

The variable indicated has been used with an asterisk or with the THRU
or THROUGH keywords. However, it has not been defined as a record or an
object. Check the spelling of the name. If it is as you intended,
locate the definition of the variable, and find out why it was not
defined as expected. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4162	Values cannot be RETURNed from within reports.

A report cannot include a RETURN statement because that would return
control to the routine that invoked the report.


-4163	Intrinsic function "name" of class "class" cannot be called directly.

Constructors of the form classname::classname() are invoked through the
NEW operator. The classname::!copy() is invoked through the COPY
operator. The classname::!derive() is invoked through the AS clause in
both the NEW and the COPY operator. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4164	The variable is too complex a type to be used in an assignment
statement.

The type of the variable cannot be used in an assignment.That is, you
cannot assign a value (except for the nonvalue NULL) to a BYTE or TEXT
variable. You cannot assign any value to an ARRAY variable.


-4167	The PRAGMA LOCATION statement should be the last statement on the line.

No other NewEra statement can follow PRAGMA LOCATION on the same line.
If your source file includes any other NewEra statement or compiler
directive after PRAGMA LOCATION, insert a linefeed character
immediately following the end of the PRAGMA LOCATION compiler
directive. (The last specification of PRAGMA LOCATION must be a line
number, a filename, or the keyword RESET.)


-4168	An unexpected character was detected in this NewEra name.

A multibyte character (or other non-ASCII character that supports the
locale) was found in the name of a NewEra identifier. For this release
of NewEra, multibyte characters and other locale-specific characters
are not valid in NewEra identifiers.


-4169	Error loading locale.

A failure occurred in trying to load the CLIENT_LOCALE locale file.
Verify that the specified files exist, that these files have
appropriate permissions set, and that sufficient space is available in
which to load them.


-4200	Write error -- out of disk space.

The compiler failed to write some information to the output file
because it ran out of disk space.


-4201	Write error. Check available disk space and ulimit.

The compiler failed to write some information to the output file, but
the cause of the error was not reliably determined. This usually means
that the ulimit was exceeded, but possibly the error was detected too
late for the auxiliary information to be accurate, or other errors have
occurred since.


-4202	The compilation was not successful. Errors found: n.  The file
filename was not written successfully either.

The compiler failed to produce the output file because of errors and it
also failed to produce the error file. Probably not enough disk space
was available.


-4203	The compilation was successful, with n warnings. The file filename
was not written successfully.

The compiler produced the output file. It also detected some warnings,
and it failed to produce the error file as well. Probably not enough
disk space was available.


-4300	This statement contains too many levels of function call nesting.

This statement has calls to functions that are nested within the
parameter lists of other function calls, to a level exceeding four. The
maximum level supported is four, as in the following expression:
Afun(2-Bfun(3+Cfun(4*Dfun(5)))).

Rewrite the expression to store the result of the innermost function
calls in a variable, and use the variable in the expression.


-4301	The program has too many levels of WHILE, FOR, MENU, and/or
CASE statements.

You can only nest CASE, FOR, MENU, and WHILE statements (in any combination)
to a depth of 25. Rearrange the program so that the nesting depth does not
exceed 25, for example, by moving some of the inner structures to a separate
module or isolating them in a function.


-4302	The record description is nested too deep.

Rewrite the record definition so that it does not exceed the limit of five nested levels of records.


-4303	A blob variable or cursor name expected.

The argument to the FREE statement must be the name of a cursor or
prepared statement or, in 4GL, the name of a variable with the BYTE
or TEXT data type.


-4304	A different database has already been declared. If your program
uses a global definition file, it must contain the same database name
as this one.

This module contains a non-procedural DATABASE statement and also uses the GLOBALS filename statement to
include a global definitions file. In that file there is a DATABASE statement that names a
different database. Change either the module or the global
definitions file so they name the same database.

-4305	The database "name" cannot be found or opened. If the database
exists, check the database permissions on the database. In addition,
check the system permissions on the database directory and its
ascendant directories.

Check the spelling of the database name. Check that the database
name exists in your current directory or in a directory included in
your DBPATH environment variable. If the database is in a different
directory, make sure that you have the ability to read that directory
(to test this, make it the current directory and list the names of files
in it). If these items are correct, make sure that you have at least
CONNECT privilege for the database.


-4306	The GLOBALS file "pathname" cannot be opened for reading.

The file specified in the GLOBALS statement cannot be opened.
Check that the file exists and that you can read it, for example, by
displaying it with an operating system command. If these items are
correct, double-check the spelling of the pathname. If the file is not in
the current directory, give the complete path.


-4307	The number of variables and/or constants in the display list does
not match the number of form fields in the display destination.

There must be exactly as many items in the list of values to display
as there are fields listed following the TO keyword.


-4308	The number of input variables does not match the number of form
fields in the screen input list.

Your INPUT statement must specify the same number of variables as
it does fields. When checking this, keep in mind that when you refer
to a record using an asterisk or THRU, it is the same as listing
each record component individually.


-4309	Printing cannot be done within a loop or CASE statement contained
in report headers or trailers.

4GL needs to know how many lines of space will be devoted to page
headers and trailers; otherwise, it does not know how many detail rows
to allow on a page. Since it cannot predict how many times a loop will
be executed, or which branch of a CASE will be execute, it forbids the
use of PRINT in these contexts within FIRST PAGE HEADER, PAGE HEADER,
and PAGE TRAILER sections. You have to rearrange the code to place the
PRINT statement where it will always be executed.


-4310	Files cannot be printed within report headers or trailers.

4GL needs to know how many lines of space will be devoted to page
headers and trailers; otherwise, it does not know how many detail rows
to allow on a page. Since it cannot predict how many lines are in a
file, it forbids printing a file in a header or trailer. You can write
PRINT statements in the control blocks for FIRST PAGE HEADER, PAGE
HEADER, and PAGE TRAILER. However, you cannot write PRINT FILE
statements in these control blocks.


-4311	The variable "variable-name" was not defined as a record. 
        It cannot be used in this fashion.

The variable name that is shown is being used with THRU (or THROUGH)
notation or with .* notation, but is not defined as a record. 
Check that the variable name is the one that you intended. If it is,
find the place where it is defined (which may be in a global
definition file included with the GLOBALS statement) and find out
why it is no longer defined as a record.


-4312	The NEED statement is allowed only within reports.

The NEED n LINES statement is used in a report to cause a conditional
page skip. This is only relevant in the context of the FORMAT section
of a report. Check to see if a REPORT statement has been omitted.


-4313	The NEED statement cannot be used within report headers or trailers.

The NEED n LINES statement is used in a a report to cause a conditional
page skip. In the context of a FIRST PAGE HEADER, PAGE HEADER, and PAGE
TRAILER section, however, it is irrelevant. If it did cause a page
skip, an endless loop could ensue.


-4314	The program cannot continue or exit a menu at this point because
it is  not within a MENU statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement uses the MENU keyword, but it is not
located within a COMMAND section of a MENU statement. Either the
statement is in error, or some other error has prevented 4GL from
recognizing the MENU statement.


-4315	The program cannot exit a FOREACH statement at this point because
it is not within a FOREACH statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement uses the FOREACH keyword, but it is not
located within a FOREACH loop. Either the statement is in error, or
some other error has prevented 4GL from recognizing the FOREACH
statement.


-4316	The program cannot exit a WHILE statement at this point because
it is not within a WHILE statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement uses the WHILE keyword, but it is not
located within a WHILE loop. Either the statement is in error, or some
other error has prevented 4GL from recognizing the WHILE statement.


-4317	The program cannot exit a FOR statement at this point because
it is not within a FOR statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement uses the FOR keyword, but it is not
located within a FOR loop. Either the statement is in error, or some
other error has prevented 4GL from recognizing the FOR statement.


-4318	The program cannot exit a CASE statement at this point because
it is not within a CASE statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement uses the CASE keyword, but it is not
located within a CASE statement. Either the statement is in error, or
some other error has prevented 4GL from recognizing the CASE
statement.


-4319	The symbol variable-name has been defined more than once.

The variable that is shown has appeared in at least one other DEFINE
statement before this one. If this DEFINE is within a function or the
MAIN section, the prior one is also. If this DEFINE is outside any
function, the prior one is also outside any function; however, it might
be within the file included by the GLOBALS statement.


-4320	The symbol table-name is not the name of a table in the specified
database.

The named table does not appear in the database that is named in the
latest DATABASE statement. It may be spelled wrong in the program, or
the table might have been dropped or renamed since the last time the
program was compiled.


-4321	An array may have the maximum of three dimensions.

You have written more than three subscripts following the name of an
array. However, 4GL only supports arrays of three dimensions or fewer.
Check the syntax of the subscript; an extra comma might have been
entered in error.


-4322	The symbol column-name is not the name of a column in the specified
database.

The preceding statement suggests that the named column is part of a
certain table in the database that is in the last DATABASE statement.
The table exists, but the column does not appear in it. Check the
spelling of the column name. If it is spelled as you intended, then
either the table has been altered, or the column renamed, or you are
not accessing the database you expected.


-4323	The variable variable-name is too complex a type to be used in an
assignment statement.

The named variable is a record or an array. 4GL does not support the
assignment of whole records or arrays. In the case of a record, you
must assign the individual record components, or you can assign groups
of components to groups of components using asterisk notation. In the
case of an array, you must use a subscript to designate a single array
element. This error is not produced by any version of 4GL later than
Version 4.1.


-4324	The variable variable-name is not a character type, and cannot
be used to contain the result of concatenation.

This statement attempts to concatenate two or more character strings
(using the comma as the concatenation operator) and assign the result
to the named variable. Unfortunately, it is not a character variable.
4GL will not perform automatic conversion from characters in this case.
Assign the concatenated string to a character variable; then, if you
want to treat the result as numeric, assign the string as a whole to a
numeric variable.


-4325	The source and destination records in this record assignment
statement are not compatible in types and/or lengths.

This statement uses asterisk notation to assign all components of one
record to the corresponding components of another. However, the
components do not correspond. Note that 4GL matches record components
strictly by position, the first to the first, second to second, and so
on; it does not match them by name. If the source and destination
records do not have the same number and type of components, you will
have to write a simple assignment statement for each component.


-4326	A NULL value may not be applied to substrings.

The value NULL is a whole value that is relevant to complete variables
only. You can assign NULL to the name of this variable (omitting the
substring notation) to make the entire variable contain the null
string. Alternatively, you can assign spaces to a substring to make it
blank. The only way to delete a portion of a string is to write an
expression that extracts the leading and trailing substrings that are
to be retained and concatenates them.


-4327	The variable variable-name is not of type INTEGER or SMALLINT. It
cannot be used as a loop index.

The index variable in a FOR loop must be an integer type. Specify a
different variable, or redefine the one named.


-4328	The variable variable-name has too complex a type to be used
as the destination of a return from a function.

The named variable is a record or an array. Only simple variables can
be returned by a function, although the function can return a list of
simple variables. In the case of a record, you can use the asterisk or
THRU notation as shorthand to specify a list of components.


-4329	The variable variable-name is not a record. Only record variables
may be expanded using the .* or THROUGH shorthand.

You have used the displayed name with either dot-asterisk (.*) or the
word THRU (or THROUGH), which is shorthand notation to specify a list
of the components of a record. Unfortunately, the variable is not
defined as a record. Make sure that you specified the right variable
and that it is defined as a record.


-4330	Values cannot be RETURNed from the MAIN program.

Although RETURN is equivalent to EXIT PROGRAM in a MAIN program, it
cannot include a value to be returned. NewEra programs return this
error.


-4331	Only variables of type INTEGER or SMALLINT may be used to
index display fields

This statement uses a subscript to refer to one element of a screen
array. However, the subscript variable is not an integer type. Make
sure that the subscripting variable is the one you intended to use,
and make sure it is defined as INTEGER or SMALLINT.


-4332	The LET statement must have at least one source expression.

This LET statement has no valid expression to the right of the equals
sign. Check the punctuation; perhaps part of the statement was
deleted in error, or perhaps a comment delimiter has been inserted
in the wrong place.


-4333	The name has already been called with a different number of parameters.

Earlier in the program, there is a call to this same function or event
with a different number of parameters in the parameter list. At least
one of these calls must be in error. Examine the FUNCTION or EVENT
statement for name to find out the correct number of parameters. Then
examine all calls to it, and make sure that they are written correctly.
When this error appears near the top of a function in conjunction with
error -4336, fix error -4336 first, and -4333 will usually disappear.
NewEra programs return this error.


-4334	The variable variable-name in its current form is too complex
to be used in this statement.

By "too complex" 4GL means "has too many component parts." In this
statement, only simple variables (those that have a single component)
can be used. If variable-name is an array, you must provide a subscript
to select just one element. If it is a record, you must choose just one
of its components. (However, if this statement permits a list of
variables, as in the INITIALIZE statement, you can use asterisk or THRU
notation to convert a record name into a list of components.)


-4335	The symbol field is not an element of the record record.

This statement refers to record.field. Although the variable record is
indeed a record, field is not the name of one of its component fields.
Find the definition of record (it may be in the GLOBALS file), verify
the names of its fields, and correct the spelling of field.


-4336	The parameter variable-name has not been defined within the
function or report.

The name variable-name appears in the parameter list of the FUNCTION
statement for this function. However, it does not appear in a DEFINE
statement within the function. All parameters must be defined in their
function before use. Possibly you wrote a DEFINE statement but did not
spell variable-name the same way in both places.


-4338	The symbol variable-name has already been defined once as a parameter.

The name that is shown appears in the parameter list of the FUNCTION
statement and in at least two DEFINE statements within the function
body. Only one appearance in a DEFINE statement is permitted.


-4339	4GL has run out of data space memory.

Your 4GL program requires more memory than is available.
If your program was executing sucessfully prior to this 
message, examine your code to see if FREE, CLOSE FORM, 
CLOSE WINDOW, or other 4GL statements can release memory 
used by 4GL program objects that are no longer needed.

If your program was using a shared memory connection, try 
setting GBASEDBTSHMBASE to a larger value.  Alternatively, 
use a streams (olipcstr) or network (oltlitcp) connection.  
 
If you receive this message during compilation, a .4gl 
source module might be too large to compile. Divide it 
into smaller modules, and compile them separately. If the 
error persists, divide the 4GL program into smaller programs.


-4340	The variable variable-name is too complex a type to be used in an
expression.

By "too complex," NewEra means "has too many component parts." In an
expression, only simple variables (those that have a single component)
can be used. If the variable indicated is an array, you must provide a
subscript to select just one element. If it is a record or object, you
must choose just one of its components. NewEra programs return this
error.


-4341	Aggregate functions are only allowed in reports and SELECT statements.

Aggregate functions such as SUM, AVG, and MAX can only appear in SQL
statements and within certain statements you use in the context of a
report body. They are not supported in ordinary expressions in program
statements. You might be able to write an application-specific
function to form this aggregate function on your data; however, you
must name it something else because names such as SUM, AVG, and MAX are
reserved words.


-4342	PAGENO and LINENO are allowed only in reports.

These functions are only relevant in the body of a report function (one
following a REPORT statement). Only within the report-generating code
is the idea of a current page or line meaningful. You can make these
values available outside a report through global variables. For
example, you could put a statement such as this one in the PAGE HEADER
control block:

LET CURR_PAGE = PAGENO

This would assign the current page to a global variable (called
CURR_PAGE in the example) that could be tested by code outside the
report function.


-4343	Subscripting cannot be applied to the expression because it
is not a character or array reference.

You can write subscript expressions (integer-valued expressions
separated by commas and enclosed in square brackets) following an
expression that evaluates to an array. You can specify a substring (two
integer expressions in square brackets) following a character
expression. However, in this statement, expressions in square brackets
follow something that is neither character nor an array. Review the
punctuation of the statement and the declaration of the variables in
it. Error -4343 with this text is produced by 4GL through Version 4.1.


-4343	Subscripting cannot be applied to the variable
variable-name because it is not a character or array variable.

You can write a subscript expression (one, two, or three numbers in
square brackets) following the name of an array variable. You can write
a substring expression (two numbers in square brackets) following the
name of a variable of data type CHAR or VARCHAR. However, variable-name
is none of those things. Either it is not the variable you intended, or
it is not correctly defined. Error -4343 with this text is produced by
4GL through Version 4.1.


-4344	The variable variable-name cannot be used with substrings
because it is not a character variable.

This statement contains what appears to be a substring expression (two
numbers in square brackets) following the identifier shown. However,
that variable is not of data type CHAR or VARCHAR. If you intended this
variable as a substring, then you either named the wrong variable, or
the variable is not correctly defined. If you meant this as an array
subscript, the same is true.


-4345	The variable variable-name has already had substrings applied to it.

The name that is shown is followed by one substring expression (two
numbers in square brackets) and then by another. This is not valid.
Perhaps some punctuation was deleted accidentally in editing the name
of another variable. Or if you meant this to be a subscript of a
two-dimensional array of character items followed by a substring of the
chosen element, the problem is that variable-name has not been defined
as an array.


-4346	Subscripts can contain only INTEGER or SMALLINT expressions.

Array subscripts are integer values, and only integer variables can be
used to form them. This statement contains a subscript in which a
FLOAT, CHAR or some other type of variable is used. No automatic
conversion of data types is performed in a subscript expression. Review
the subscript expressions in the statement; perhaps you simply entered
the wrong variable name. If not, you will have to revise the program to
store array subscripts in integer variables only (you might expect that
a DECIMAL value with a scale factor of zero would be permitted also,
but this is not the case.)


-4347	The variable variable-name is not a record. It cannot
reference record elements.

In this statement variable-name appears followed by a dot, followed by
another name. This is the way you would refer to a component of a
record variable; however, variable-name is not defined as a record.
Either you have written the name of the wrong variable, or else
variable-name is not defined the way you intended.


-4348	This type of aggregate must be applied to an expression,
not '*'. Only PERCENT and COUNT aggregates use '*'.

An aggregate function in this statement is one of those, such as MIN
and SUM, that must be applied to a specific column or to an expression
involving specific columns. The asterisk notation in an SQL statement
means "the whole row." With an aggregate function, it is useful only
when counting entire rows.


-4349	The PERCENT and COUNT report aggregates cannot be used with an
expression.

These aggregate functions simply count entire rows, without regard for
the contents of the rows. COUNT returns a count of the rows, and
PERCENT returns the count of rows as a percentage of the entire table.
The only permitted parameters of these functions '*' mean "the entire
row." They cannot be applied to specific columns or to expressions that
involve specific columns.


-4350	The program cannot continue a FOR loop at this time because
it is not within a FOR loop.

A CONTINUE FOR statement is not between a FOR statement and its
matching END FOR statement. Perhaps the FOR statement has been
accidentally deleted, or perhaps you changed to another type of loop
such as FOREACH or WHILE.


-4351	The program cannot continue a WHILE loop at this time because
it is not within a WHILE loop.

A CONTINUE WHILE statement is not between a WHILE statement and its
matching END WHILE statement. Perhaps the WHILE statement has been
accidentally deleted, or perhaps you changed to another type of loop
such as FOREACH or FOR.


-4352	The program cannot continue a FOREACH loop at this time because
it is not within a FOREACH loop.

A CONTINUE FOREACH statement is not between a FOREACH statement and its
matching END FOREACH statement. Perhaps the FOREACH statement has been
accidentally deleted, or perhaps you changed to another type of loop
such as WHILE or FOR.


-4353	The type of this ORDER BY or GROUP item specified for the
report is not valid for sorting.

The database server does not support comparison functions on columns of
such types as TEXT or BYTE. As a result, columns with such types cannot
be used to order or group rows. Use other columns (usually the primary
key of the table) for ordering and grouping.


-4354	Aggregate functions cannot be performed with TEXT or BYTE variables.

This statement applies an aggregate function such as SUM to a variable
that is defined as BYTE or TEXT. Such variables are not in the domain
of the aggregate functions. Review the use of functions in the
statement, and make sure that they are applied to the variables you
intended.


-4356	A page header has already been specified within this report.

Only one PAGE HEADER control block is allowed in a report. The
statements in this control block must be suitable for all pages of the
report (except the very first page, for which you may write a FIRST
PAGE HEADER block). Find the other PAGE HEADER control blocks, and
combine all their statements into one control block.


-4357	A page trailer has already been specified within this report.

Only one PAGE TRAILER control block is allowed in a report. The
statements in this control block must be suitable for all pages of the
report. Find the other PAGE TRAILER control blocks, and combine all
their statements into one control block.


-4358	A first page header has already been specified within this report.

Only one FIRST PAGE HEADER control block is allowed in a report. (After
all, only one first page exists.) Find the other FIRST PAGE HEADER
control blocks, and combine all their statements into one control
block.


-4359	An ON EVERY ROW clause has already been specified within
this report.

Only one ON EVERY ROW control block is permitted in a report. Find the
other ON EVERY ROW control blocks, and combine their statements into
one block.


-4360	An ON LAST ROW clause has already been specified within
this report.

Only one ON LAST ROW control block is permitted in a report. Find the
other ON LAST ROW control blocks, and combine their statements into
one block.


-4361	Group aggregates can occur only in AFTER GROUP clauses.

The aggregate functions that apply to a group of rows (GROUP COUNT,
GROUP PERCENT, GROUP SUM, GROUP AVG, GROUP MIN, and GROUP MAX) can only
be used at the point in the report when a complete group has been
processed, namely, in the AFTER GROUP control block. Make sure that the
AFTER GROUP statement exists and was recognized. If you need the value
of a group aggregate at another time (for instance, in a PAGE TRAILER
control block), you can save it in a global variable with a LET
statement in the AFTER GROUP control block.


-4362	The report cannot skip to the top of page while in a header or trailer.

When SKIP TO TOP OF PAGE is executed, the page trailer clause must be
executed (so as to display fixed page-end material) followed by the
page header clause. If the statement was allowed in a header or trailer
clause, an infinite loop could ensue.


-4363	The report cannot skip lines while in a loop within a header or trailer.

4GL needs to know how many lines of space will be devoted to the page
header and trailer (otherwise it does not know how many detail rows to
allow on the page). It cannot predict how many times a loop will be
executed, so it has to forbid the use of SKIP statements in loops in
the PAGE HEADER, PAGE TRAILER, and FIRST PAGE HEADER sections.


-4364	Type of initialization/default expression does not match
declared type of the variable/parameter.

The initialization expression for the specified variable does not
evaluate to a data type that is compatible with the declared type.
Review the expression, and make it and the declared type agree.


-4365	Deferments of interrupt or quit may be executed only in the main
program.

The statements DEFER INTERRUPT and DEFER QUIT can only appear in the
MAIN section of the program. They can appear only once each in a
program.


-4366	The number of variables does not match the number of database
columns in this statement.

There must be a program variable to receive data from or supply data to
each column named in the statement. Possibly there is an ambiguity
between column names and variable names. When a program variable has
the same name as a database column, you can force 4GL to use the
database column by prefixing it with the at-sign (@) character or with
its tablename.


-4367	Interrupt has already been deferred once in the main program.
Each main program may defer interrupts only once.

The statements DEFER INTERRUPT and DEFER QUIT can only appear in the
MAIN section of the program. They can appear only once each in a
program.


-4368	Quit has already been deferred once in the main program. Each main
program may defer quit only once.

The statements DEFER INTERRUPT and DEFER QUIT can only appear in the
MAIN section of the program. They can appear only once each in a
program.


-4369	The symbol variable-name does not represent a defined variable.

The name shown appears where a variable would be expected, but it does
not match any variable name in a DEFINE statement that applies to this
context. Check the spelling of the name. If it is the name you
intended, look back and find out why it has not yet been defined.
Possibly the GLOBALS statement has been omitted from this source
module, or it names an incorrect file. Possibly this code has been
copied from another module or another function, but the DEFINE
statement was not copied also.


-4370	The variable variable-name cannot be used in validation.

The VALIDATE statement operates on only simple variables; it cannot
accept records or arrays. If you have named a record, you can use
asterisk notation or THRU notation as shorthand for a list of the
component fields of the record. However, if a record component is
itself a record, you must list its components individually as well.


-4371	Cursors must be uniquely declared within one program module.

In the statement DECLARE cname CURSOR, the identifier cname can be used
in only one DECLARE statement in the source file. This is true even
when the DECLARE statement appears inside a function. Although a
program variable made with the DEFINE statement is local to the
function, a cursor within a function is still global to the whole
module.


-4372	The cursor cursor-name has not yet been declared in this program
module. It must be declared before it can be used.

The name shown appears where the name of a declared cursor or a
prepared statement is expected; however, no cursor (or statement) of
that name has been declared (or prepared) to this point in the program.
Check the spelling of the name. If it is the name you intended, look
back in the program to see why it has not been declared. Possibly the
DECLARE statement appears in a GLOBALS file that was not included.


-4373	A grammatical error has been found on line line-number, character
char-number. The construct is not understandable in its context.

This general message shows an inability to parse a 4GL statement. The
line and character numbers show the point at which the parser detected
a problem. However, this is almost never the point at which the error
exists. Start there, and work backward in the program looking for
other error messages and for missing punctuation, missing END
statements, and other mistakes. If the statement at line-number is END
FUNCTION, END MAIN, or END REPORT, one probable cause is the absence of
another END, possibly many lines earlier. Usually a missing END IF is
the culprit. If the cause for this error is not obvious, concentrate on
eliminating any other, more specific error messages, and this one will
probably go away also.


-4374	This type of statement can only be used within a MENU statement.

This statement, for example a SHOW OPTION statement, only makes sense
within the context of a MENU statement. Review the program in this
vicinity to see if an END MENU statement has been misplaced. If you
intended to set up the appearance of a menu before displaying it, use a
BEFORE MENU block within the scope of the MENU.


-4375	The page length is too short to cover the specified page
header and trailer lengths.

Examine the statements in the OUTPUT section and in any HEADER and
TRAILER clauses. The total of lines used by these statements must be
sufficiently less than the specified page length that some detail rows
can be printed.


-4376	The temporary file filename cannot be created for writing.

Check that your account, on UNIX systems, has permission to create
files in the /tmp directory or in the directory named in the DBTEMP
environment variable if that is different. Look for other, more
explicit, error messages from the operating system. Possibly the disk
is full, or you have reached a limit on the number of open files.


-4377	The output file filename cannot be created or opened.

On UNIX systems, check that your account has permission to create files
in the directory where filename would be created. Look for other, more
explicit, error messages from the operating system. Possibly the disk
is full, or you have reached a limit on the number of open files.


-4378	No input file was specified.

You invoked the C-code or the p-code compiler from the command line but
did not specify the name of a source file to be edited. Repeat the
command, specifying a source file.


-4379	The input filename filename cannot be opened.

Either the file does not exist, or, on UNIX, your account does not have
permission to read it. Possibly the filename is misspelled, or the
directory path leading to the file was specified incorrectly.


-4380	The listing file filename cannot be created.

Check that the directory path leading to the file is specified
correctly and, on UNIX systems, that your account has permission to
create a file in that directory. Look for other, more explicit, error
messages from the operating system. Possibly the disk is full, or you
have reached a limit on the number of open files.


-4381	The input file filename has an invalid extension. The file
name must have .4gl as the extension.

You do not need to enter the file extension or suffix of .4gl when you
type the name of a program source file. However, if you do type a file
suffix it must be .4gl; no other is allowed. If you type the suffix
incorrectly, enter the command again omitting the suffix. If the file
really has a different suffix, you will have to change it.


-4382	Cannot expand a structure with an array member.

The ".*" and THROUGH notation cannot be used to expand a record with an
array member, except in the LET statement. Error -4382 with this
meaning is issued by NewEra.


-4382	Record variables that contain array type elements may not
be referenced by the ".*" or THROUGH shorthand, or used as a function
parameter.

You can define a record that contains an array as one of its
components. However, you must always list that component by its full
designation of record.part[n]. The asterisk or THRU notation is only
shorthand for a list of the names of the components of the record. It
cannot produce the bracketed subscript after the name of the array
component.

A record that contains an array component cannot be used as a parameter
to a function. However, you can use the array component itself as a
function parameter if you spell out its name as record.part. Error -4382
with this meaning is issued by NewEra.


-4383	The elements name-1 and name-2 do not belong to the same parent record.

The two names shown are used where two components of one record are
required; however, they are not components of the same record. Check
the spelling of both names. If they are spelled as you intended, go
back to the definition of the record and see why it does not include
both names as component fields.


-4384	The symbol name does not represent the element of any record.

The name shown is used where 4GL expects the name of a record
component. Check the spelling of the name. If it is spelled as you
intended, go back to the definition of the record variable and see why
it does not include name as a component field.


-4385	Report aggregates cannot be nested.

Aggregate functions cannot be nested, primarily because the value of
the inner aggregate is not known at the time the outer aggregate is
being accumulated. Rewrite aggregate expressions to refer only to
columns and simple expressions on columns. In an AFTER GROUP OF clause,
you can save the aggregate value from one group of rows in a program
variable, so as to use it in computing an aggregate over a subsequent
group.


-4386	There are too many ORDER BY fields in this report. The maximum
number is number.

A limit exists on the number of ordering fields. You will have to
redesign the report so that it requires ordering by no more than number
columns. Alternatively you can order the data before passing it to the
report, and specify the EXTERNAL keyword on the ORDER BY statement in
the report body. It is generally more efficient to have the database
server produce the rows in the correct order (using SELECT...ORDER BY
in the cursor that produces the rows).


-4387	The right margin must be greater than the left margin.

If the right margin of a report were no greater than the left margin,
there would be no room on each line for data. Check both MARGIN
statements in the OUTPUT section for reasonable values.


-4388	There is one BEFORE GROUP OF clause and one AFTER GROUP OF clause
allowed for each report input parameter.

The report is attempting to define a second BEFORE GROUP OF or AFTER
GROUP OF block for a single report parameter. Only one such control
block is allowed. Find all the blocks for this parameter, and combine
their statements into one.


-4389	There are too many levels of nesting of IF statements in this report.

You have exceeded the maximum of five levels of nesting of IF
statements. Possibly an END IF statement has been omitted. If not, you
will have to revise the logic of the report so that decisions are
nested less deeply.


-4390	Only one BEFORE MENU clause is allowed for each MENU statement.

There can be only one BEFORE block of statements in a MENU. Make sure
that the scope of your MENU statements are correctly marked with an END
MENU. Then combine all the preparation code for this menu into a
single BEFORE MENU block. This error is returned only by 4GL at Version
4.1.


-4391	When doing INPUT BY NAME or INPUT ARRAY, the BEFORE/AFTER field
names can be specified only by the field name suffix. Screen array and
screen record elements are not allowed.

Only names of single form fields can be used with a BEFORE or AFTER
clause. The name of a field is defined in the ATTRIBUTES section of
the form definition; it is often the same as the name of a database
column. Here are example lines from an ATTRIBUTES section:

atag = customer.customer_num,noentry;
tag2 = formonly.total,format="#######.##";

The names of these fields are customer_num and total, respectively.

In the 4GL statement in question, you have written a name prefixed with
another name and a dot. That syntax is used for specifying components
of screen records or screen arrays, or database columns of the same
name in different tables, but it is not appropriate here.


-4392	The 4GL compiler has run out of data space memory to contain
the 4GL program symbols. If the program module is very large, dividing it
into separate modules may alleviate the situation.

Reorganize your program source as a group of modules that can be
compiled separately. Alternatively, revise the program so that fewer
unique symbols are required, for instance by replacing many similar
variables with an array. This error might also be related to the
CONSTRUCT statement. If there is a CONSTRUCT over a large number of
fields, moving that statement to a function and putting the function in
a different source module might alleviate the problem with no other
changes.


-4393	The MENU statement has exceeded the maximum number of selections.

There is a maximum of 25 selections in a menu. Make sure that you have
not omitted an END MENU statement, thus combining two menus. If the
menu is as you intended it, you will have to revise the program so as
not to exceed the limit, for example by creating a hierarchy of menus.


-4394	Warning: Formal parameters in informal function headers cannot have
initial values. The initial value of this parameter is ignored. If this value
is intended as the default parameter, then use formal function headers to
specify defaults.

Although parameters in formal (function-prototype-style) definitions
can have initial values, those in the informal function definitions
cannot. The initial value of this parameter is ignored. If this value
is intended as the default parameter, then use the formal definition
format that uses function prototypes to specify defaults. Only NewEra
returns this error.


-4395	There are too many subscripts specified with a database column name.

In this statement the name of a database column is followed by square
brackets with several numbers between them. The only valid use for
square brackets with a database column is to select a substring from a
character column. However, for that use you must write exactly two
numbers, the subscripts of the first and last letters of the substring.
Here more than two numbers are used. Check and correct the
punctuation.


-4396	The MENU declaration at line line-number is not terminated.

4GL could not identify an END MENU statement to match the MENU
statement on the line number shown. Start at that line and work down
until you find where the terminating statement should have been, and
insert it.


-4397	The IF statement at line line-number is not terminated.

4GL could not identify an END IF statement to match the IF statement on
the line number shown. Start at that line and work down until you find
where the terminating statement should have been, and insert it.


-4398	The CASE statement at line line-number is not terminated.

4GL could not identify an END CASE statement to match the CASE
statement on the line number shown. Start at that line and work down
until you find where the terminating statement should have been, and
insert it.


-4399	The WHILE statement at line line-number is not terminated.

4GL could not identify an END WHILE statement to match the WHILE
statement on the line number shown. Start at that line and work down
until you find where the terminating statement should have been, and
insert it.

-4400	The FOR statement at line line-number is not terminated.

4GL could not identify an END FOR statement to match the FOR statement
on the line number shown. Start at that line and work down until you
find where the terminating statement should have been, and insert it.


-4401	A concatenation operation has created a string too long to
fit in the destination string variable.

This statement concatenates two or more character strings and stores
the result in another variable of type CHAR or VARCHAR. However, the
result of concatenation was longer than the receiving variable. If the
excess length is due to trailing spaces, you can use the CLIPPED
function to prevent them from being included in the combined result.
Otherwise you will have to define the length of the receiving variable
as at least the sum of the lengths of the input variables.


-4402	In this type of statement, subscripting may be applied only
to array variables to select individual array elements.

The statement contains a name followed by square brackets, but the name
is not that of an array variable. Check the punctuation of the
statement and the spelling of all names. Names that are subscripted
must be arrays. If you intended to use a character substring in this
statement, you will have to revise the program.


-4403	The number of dimensions for the variable variable-name does
not match the number of subscripts.

In this statement, the array whose name is shown is subscripted by a
different number of dimensions than it was defined to have. Check the
punctuation of the subscript. If it is as you intended, then review the
DEFINE statement where variable-name is defined.


-4405	The function has exceeded the maximum number of allowed parameters.

This message is not returned by any current GBase product. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-4406	There is an unmatched quote in the above line.

The source line contains an odd number of quote symbols. Inspect it
from left to right and make sure that all literal character strings
begin and end with a quote. All literal strings must begin and end on
the same logical line. However, you can write long literal strings in
two ways. First, you can escape the end of line by making the final
character in the line a backslash (however, there is a fixed maximum of 256
characters on the total length of a single quoted string). Second,
in the DISPLAY and LET statements, you can concatenate shorter literal
strings using the comma. Here are two examples.

DISPLAY "abcdefghijkl\

mnopqrstuvwxyz"

DISPLAY "abcdefghijkl",

"mnopqrstuvwxyz"

Both display the alphabet with no embedded white space.


-4407	There is an unprintable character in the above line.

This source line contains an unusual character. 4GL suggests that the
source file might be corrupt. Edit the file and remove the bad
character. If you cannot see or select it with your editor, you may
have to delete and retype the line.


-4408	There is a quoted string that is too long in the above line.

The limit on the length of a literal character string is 256 characters.
However, in the DISPLAY and LET statements you can concatenate shorter
literal strings using the comma. See message -4406 for an example.


-4409	There is an invalid character in the above line.

This source line contains some character other than printable text and
normal white space. Remove the invalid characters (which may be
invisible under normal editing). If you cannot see or select the
invalid characters with your editor program, you might have to delete
the line and retype it.


-4410	There is a numeric constant in the previous line that
is too large or too small.

A numeric constant in this line cannot be processed. Check the digits
and punctuation of all literal numbers; for example, make sure that you
have not typed a letter for a digit. No number can have more than 50
digits. Depending on the context, numbers might be restricted to one
of three ranges.

SMALLINT:

absolute value not exceeding 32,767

INTEGER:

absolute value not exceeding 2,147,483,647

DECIMAL:

absolute value from 10 to the 130th power through 10 to the 124th power

BIGINT/INT8/SERIAL8 :

absolute value from -9,223,372,036,854,775,807  to  +9,223,372,036,854,775,807 

-4411	There is an alphanumeric identifier that is too long in the above line.

No identifier can exceed 50 characters. Check the spelling and
punctuation of all identifiers (perhaps two names have run together).


-4412	Values from the RUN command can be returned only
to INTEGER or SMALLINT variables.

The RUN command only returns the integer return code from the program
that was executed. No automatic conversion of data occurs in this case;
its result must be assigned to an integer variable.


-4413	The label label-name has already been defined within this
function/report.

The name shown appears in two or more LABEL statements. Check the
spelling of the name; if it is as you intended, then look back through
this function, report, handler, or main program for other LABEL
statements and find the one that uses this same name. Change one of
them to use a different name. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4413	The label label-name has already been defined within this
main program or function.

The name shown appears in two or more LABEL statements. Check the
spelling of the name; if it is as you intended, then look back through
this function or main program for other LABEL statements and find the
one that uses this same name. Change one of them to use a different
name. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4414	The label label-name has been used but has never been defined
within this function/report.

A GOTO or WHENEVER statement refers to the label shown, but there is no
corresponding LABEL statement in the current function, report, handler,
or main program. Check the spelling of the label. If it is as you
intended it, find and inspect the LABEL statement that should define
it. You cannot transfer out of a program block with GOTO; labels must
be defined in the same function body where they are used. Only NewEra
returns this error.


-4414	The label label-name has been used but has never been defined within
the above main program or function.

A GOTO or WHENEVER statement refers to the label shown, but there is no
corresponding LABEL statement in the current function, report, handler,
or main program. Check the spelling of the label. If it is as you
intended it, find and inspect the LABEL statement that should define
it. You cannot transfer out of a function with GOTO; labels must be
defined in the same function body where they are used. Only 4GL returns
this error.


-4415	An ORDER BY or GROUP item specified within a report must be
one of the report parameters.

The names used in a ORDER BY, AFTER GROUP OF, or BEFORE GROUP OF
statement must also appear in the parameter list of the REPORT
statement. It is not possible to order or group based on a global
variable or other expression. Check the spelling of the names in the
statement and compare them to the REPORT statement.


-4416	There is an error in the validation string: "%s".

Change the appropriate DEFAULT or INCLUDE value in the syscolval
table.


-4417	This type of statement can be used only in a report.

Statements such as PRINT, SKIP, or NEED are meaningful only within the
body of a report function, where there is an implicit report listing to
receive output.


-4418	The variable used in the INPUT ARRAY or DISPLAY ARRAY statement
must be an array.

The name following the words DISPLAY ARRAY or INPUT ARRAY must be that
of an array of records. Check the spelling of the name. If it is as you
intended, find and inspect the DEFINE statement to see why it is not an
array. (If you want to display or input a simple variable or a single
element of an array, use the DISPLAY or INPUT statement.)


-4419	The variable used in the CONSTRUCT statement must be a character
variable.

The name following the word CONSTRUCT must be that of a variable
defined as CHARACTER or VARCHAR. It ought to be a long variable, since
the string it receives may be long. Check the spelling of the name. If
it is as you intended, find and inspect the DEFINE statement to see why
it is not a character type.


-4420	The number of lines printed in the IF part of an IF-THEN-ELSE statement
of a header or trailer clause must equal the number of lines printed in the
ELSE part.

4GL needs to know how many lines will be filled in header and trailer
sections (otherwise it could not know how many detail rows to put on
the page). Because it cannot tell which part of an IF statement will be
executed, it requires that both produce the same number of lines of
output.


-4421	You may not use an INPUT statement within another INPUT statement or
PROMPT statement, even if it is enclosed within a conditional or looping
statement.

You can execute an INPUT statement from within another one, or from a
PROMPT statement, but in order to do so you must place the INPUT
statement in a function and call the function. You cannot embed the
text of an INPUT statement within another.


-4422	You may not use a CONSTRUCT statement within another INPUT statement.
This includes situations when CONSTRUCT is enclosed within a conditional or
looping statement. You must call a function that executes the CONSTRUCT
statement.

You can execute a CONSTRUCT statement from within an INPUT statement,
but in order to do so you must place the CONSTRUCT statement in a
function and call the function. You cannot embed the text of a
CONSTRUCT statement in an INPUT statement.


-4423	The CLIPPED and USING options for the DISPLAY statement may not be used
when displaying to a form field.

The CLIPPED and USING keywords cannot be used in the DISPLAY TO and
DISPLAY BY NAME statements. The display format of a form field is
controlled by the attributes of that field, as specified in the form
file. Trailing spaces are not displayed in a field. To get the effect
of USING, edit the form file and add a USING attribute to the field or
fields.


-4424	The variable variable-name has not been defined as a record.

The variable shown has been used with an asterisk, or with the THRU or
THROUGH keywords. However, it has not been defined as a record. Check
the spelling of the name. If it is as you intended, locate the
definition of the variable and find out why it was not defined as a
record. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4425	The variable variable-name has not been defined LIKE the table
table-name.

The named variable has been used in the SET clause of an UPDATE
statement. However, it was not defined to be LIKE the table being
updated. As a result, 4GL cannot associate record components with table
columns. You can change the definition of the variable, or you can
rewrite the UPDATE statement to show the explicit relationship between
column names and record components.


-4426	The PRINT statement can be used only within reports. If you wish to
print without screen positioning, use the DISPLAY statement without any field
or screen destination.

The keyword PRINT is used specifically to produce lines of output to a
report. The keyword DISPLAY introduces output to the screen. Possibly
this statement was accidentally copied from a report body; more likely
it was a hasty attempt to display casual output on the screen. In the
latter case, simply changing PRINT to DISPLAY is usually enough.


-4427	The COLUMN feature for the DISPLAY statement may be used only when
displaying without screen or field destination.

The COLUMN function returns a string of spaces long enough to reach a
certain column in the display output. You may use it with unqualified
DISPLAY and with DISPLAY AT, but it is not appropriate with DISPLAY TO
or DISPLAY BY NAME.


-4428	You may not use a PROMPT statement within an INPUT or PROMPT statement,
even if it is enclosed within a conditional or looping statement.

You can execute a PROMPT statement from within another one or from
within an INPUT statement, but in order to do so you must place the
PROMPT statement in a function and call the function. You cannot embed
the text of a PROMPT statement within an INPUT statement or another
PROMPT.


-4429	Report and function parameters cannot be arrays.

You cannot pass a whole array as a parameter of a function. You can
pass an individual element of the array by using a subscript. Possibly
the array that is causing this error is one component of a record
variable that is being passed using asterisk notation. Only 4GL returns
this error.


-4429	Parameters cannot be arrays, records with array members, or constants.

You cannot pass a whole array or a constant as a parameter of a
function. You can pass an individual element of an array by using a
subscript. Possibly the array that is causing this error is one
component of a record variable that is being passed using asterisk
notation. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4430	Values cannot be RETURNed from within reports.

A report cannot include a RETURN statement because that would return
control to the routine that invoked the report. Only NewEra returns
this error.


-4430	Record parameters for a report cannot contain elements that are arrays.

You cannot pass a whole array as a parameter of a function. You can
pass an individual element of the array by using a subscript. In this
case, a record variable is specified as a parameter using asterisk
notation, but one of the components of the record is an array.


-4431	The number of expanded report parameters has exceeded the maximum
allowed.

This message is not returned by any current GBase product. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-4432	An element in a GROUP clause must be a member of the ORDER BY clause.

In order to perform grouping, the set of selected rows must be ordered
on the same columns. This is the only way to force all the equal values
to be found together, as a group. Rewrite the statement so that each
selected value that you want to group also appears in an ORDER BY
clause. Note that both these clauses allow you to refer to selected
values by their position number, as in the following example:

SELECT customer_num, month(order_date), avg(ship_weight) FROM orders
	ORDER BY 1, 2 GROUP BY 1,2


-4433	A variable used in the above statement must be of type CHAR or VARCHAR.

The filename in the REPORT TO statement must be given as a character
value; and the program name in the REPORT TO PIPE statement must also
be given as a character value. In either case, this can be a constant,
a variable of either of the types mentioned, or an expression. However,
it cannot be a number or other data type; no automatic type conversion
occurs in these statements.


-4434	The limits of the GBase 4GL Demo Version have been exceeded.
Call GBase for licensing information.

A program compiled using the demonstration version of GBase 4GL can
contain only one module with no more than 150 statements. This program
either has too many statements, or it refers to a function in another
module. Contact your GBase sales representative for information on
full development licenses.


-4435	An acceptable hyphenated key format is CONTROL-X, where X is any letter
except A, D, H, L, R, or X.

When a key is trapped by an ON KEY clause, it loses other special
functions; for example, if you trap the Escape key, you must use the
OPTIONS statement to set up a different Accept key. You are not allowed
to use one of the control keys A, D, H, L, R, or X because these keys
have editing functions, and there is no method of assigning alternate
keys to those functions.


-4436	There are too many variables to VALIDATE or INITIALIZE in one statement.

There is a limit of 250 names (through Version 4.0) in the VALIDATE and
INITIALIZE statements. Simply divide this statement into multiple
statements so as not to exceed the limit.


-4437	All table names in the SELECT list must be the same as the table name
in the FROM clause.

One of the table names used in the list of columns to select does not
appear in the FROM clause. Possibly you simply misspelled the name in
one of the two places. Or you might have used a table alias in the
select-list but forgot to define it in the FROM clause.


-4438	You cannot SELECT into a substring of a character variable.

Substring notation is not allowed in the INTO clause. You can specify a
substring of a column in the list of columns to select and in the WHERE
clause. But you have to select into an entire variable. Define a
variable to select into, and move the data into the destination
substring using a LET statement.


-4439	You cannot SELECT into record record because element name is a record
or an array.

The INTO clause can name only simple variables. The use of asterisk or
THRU notation is a shorthand for listing all the component fields of a
record. The resulting list of fields must consist of simple variables.
In this case, the field name is not simple. Perhaps you have referred
to the wrong record. If not, you will have to list the name component
separately, specifying one or more of its component parts.


-4440	name1 precedes name2 in the record/object and must also precede it when
 used with the THROUGH shorthand.

The THROUGH or THRU shorthand requires you to give the starting and
ending fields as they appear in physical sequence in the record. Check
the spelling of the names; if they are as you intended, then refer to
the VARIABLE statement where the record was defined to see why they are
not in the sequence you expected. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4440	The field name1 precedes name2 in the record record-name and must also
precede it when used with the THROUGH shorthand.

The THROUGH or THRU shorthand requires you to give the starting and
ending fields as they appear in physical sequence in the record. Check
the spelling of the names; if they are as you intended, then refer to
the DEFINE statement where the record was defined to see why they are
not in the sequence you expected. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4448	Cannot open the file filename for reading or writing.

Verify that the filename is correctly spelled and that your account 
has permission to read or write to it.


-4451	The size of the pcode generated from this function/report has exceeded
the 32K per function limit.

The function or report will have to be simplified. Extract some portion
of its code to a separate function or report, and call that one. Only
NewEra returns this error.


-4452	The function (or report) name has already been defined.

No two functions can have the same name. No two reports can have the
same name. Change one of the two occurrences of name to a different
name. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4452	The function (or report) name has already been defined.  Function and
report cannot both have the same name.

Each function (or report, which is similar to a function) must have a
unique name within the program. Change the function or report name.


-4453	Too many global identifiers and literal strings in your program.

A table 256K bytes long holds literal strings and identifiers used in
the main function and at the global and module levels. The table also
holds the identifiers of forms, windows, and cursors. To avoid this
error, move some code that uses many literal strings into a separate
module or into a function. Alternatively, find a way to initialize
character variables without assigning literal strings, for example by
reading the initial values from a database or file. Reducing the number
of global and module variables will also help.


-4453	The size of the global string table has exceeded the limit of 32767.

The table is used to hold literal strings and identifiers used in the
main function and at the global and module levels. The table also holds
the identifiers of forms, windows, and cursors. To avoid this error,
move some code that uses many literal strings into a separate module or
into a function. Alternatively, find a way to initialize character
variables without assigning literal strings, for example by reading the
initial values from a database or file. Reducing the number of global
and module variables will also help. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4454	The size of the local string table has exceeded the limit of 32767.

The table is used to hold literal strings and identifiers used in the
current function. To avoid this error, split the function into two or
more sub-functions. Alternatively, find a way to initialize character
variables without assigning literal strings, for example by reading the
initial values from a database or file. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4458	Each dimension for an array must be between 1 and 32767, inclusive.

Array dimensions cannot be less than one or greater than 32,767. If you
need a larger array, you must either split the array into multiple
arrays, or use multiple dimensions.


-4475	"name" cannot be used as both a function (or report) name and an
identifier name.

The name shown has been defined at least two ways. Names at the global
or module level must be unique. Locate all the definitions and
declarations of this name and change all but one of them. Only NewEra
returns this error.


-4475	"name" may not be used as both a function (or report) name and a
variable name.

The name shown has been defined at least two ways. Names at the global
or module level (function names, report names, and names of global or
module variables) must be unique. Locate all the definitions of this
name and change all but one of them. Error -4475 is issued with this
meaning from 4GL at versions after 4.1.


-4475	"name" may not be used as both a function (or report) name and an
identifier.

The name shown has been defined at least two ways. Names at the global
or module level must be unique. Locate all the definitions and
declarations of this name and change all but one of them. Error -4475
is issued with this meaning from 4GL at versions after 4.1.


-4476	Record members may not be used with database column substring. Possible
misspelling or usage of undefined host variables.

This statement has a reference of the form name1.name2[...]. This is
the form in which you would refer to a substring of a column:
table.column[...]. However, the names are not a table and column in
the database, so 4GL presumes they refer to a field of a record.
Inspect the statement and determine what was intended: a reference to a
column or to a record. If it is a column reference, verify the names of
the table and column in the database. If it is a record reference,
verify that the record and component are properly defined. If the
record has the same name as a table, prefix the name of the table with
@ to make it clear you mean the table, not the record.


-4479	Warning: non-ANSI comment indicator. Use "--" for ANSI compatibility.

If you want your SQL statements to comply with ANSI standards, you must
use the two-dash comment delimiter (- -). The comment delimiters of the
number sign (#) and the braces ({ }) are not portable to ANSI-compliant
systems. This message is seen because you specified that you wanted
warnings issued for constructs that are not ANSI compliant, by means of
the -ansi command-line parameter, the DBANSIWARN environment variable,
or the DBANSIWARN setting in the gbasedbt.ini file. Only NewEra returns
this error.


-4479	Warning: non-ANSI comment indicator. Use "--" for ANSI compatibility.

If you want your SQL statements to comply with ANSI standards, you must
use the two-dash comment delimiter (- -). The comment delimiters of the
number sign (#) and the braces ({ }) are not portable to ANSI-compliant
systems. This message is seen because you specified that you wanted
warnings issued for constructs that are not ANSI compliant, by means of
the -ansi command-line parameter, or the DBANSIWARN environment
variable. Only 4GL returns this error.


-4486	TEXT or BYTE variables and wordwrap fields cannot be printed in report
headers or trailers.

4GL has to be able to predict how many lines will be used in a report
header or trailer. Because the size of a TEXT variable is
unpredictable, you cannot display one in these contexts.


-4487	It is not possible to mix parameter and local record definitions where
the record contains variables of type TEXT or BYTE.  Make a second
definition for the local record variable.

In this report body, use separate DEFINE statements for parameters of
the report and for local variables of any type.


-4488	The program cannot CONTINUE or EXIT statement-type at this point
because it is not immediately within statement-type statement.

This CONTINUE or EXIT statement is not appropriate in its context.
Possibly the statement is misplaced, or possibly the statement type was
specified incorrectly.


-4489	The statement above does not allow the use of local variables or
report parameters in its expressions.

This statement cannot refer to an argument of the function or to a
variable defined in the function. It can use only variables defined at
the module level (before the MAIN section) or in the GLOBALS section.
In the case of OUTPUT REPORT TO, the statement takes effect during the
execution of a START REPORT statement. At this time, no arguments are
passed into the report description, and no report description
statements are executed that could initialize a local variable. Change
the statement to refer to a variable that can be initialized before the
report is started.


-4490	You cannot have multiple BEFORE clauses for the same field.

You cannot specify more than one BEFORE clause for the same field.


-4491	The parameter name has been changed.

More than one copy of the function prototype has occurred in the
current scope, and the one indicated by this message has specified a
different name for a formal parameter than that specified by any
prototypes already encountered.


-4492	Warning: The parameter is assigned a new default value.

More than one copy of the function prototype has occurred in the
current scope, and the one indicated by this message has specified a
different default value for a formal parameter than that specified by
any prototypes already encountered.


-4493	Named parameters are allowed only for formal functions/reports.

The indicated function reference uses named parameters, but the
declaration of the function or report used the informal style of
parameter declaration, in which only the names are specified in the
parameter list and the types are specified in subsequent, subsidiary
declarations.


-4494	Missing named parameter "name" does not have default value.

The indicated function invocation does not list a value for a
parameter, and the declaration for the function does not provide a
default value for it. Either add a default value in the declaration, or
add a name/value pair here in the invocation.


-4495	Duplicate or invalid parameter name.

The name of a parameter specified in the invocation of the function
does not match any of the names in the declaration of that function, or
it is not a valid NewEra identifier. Check its spelling.


-4496	CHAR (*) type is not allowed within records or classes.

The CHAR(*) type is allowed only in function prototypes, as a
parameter, not as an element of a record or class.


-4497	Event "name" is already declared in the class.

Two events in the same class cannot have the same name.


-4498	Event/Handler name must be different from intrinsic member function
name.

You cannot declare an event or a handler with the same name as an
intrinsic member function (!copy(), !derive(), or the name of the
class). Change the name of the event or handler.


-4499	Member "name" is already declared in the class or in its base class.

Either a member called "name" already exists in the current class, and
you have attempted to declare another member with that name, or you are
attempting to override an event or a variable. Only member functions
can be overridden.


-4500	A numeric conversion error has occurred due to incompatibility between
a calling program and its function parameters or between a variable and its
assigned expression.

See error -1317, which has replaced this error.


-4501	A parameter count mismatch has occurred between the calling function
and the called function.

See error -1318, which has replaced this error.


-4502	The 4GL program has run out of runtime data space memory.

See error -1319, which has replaced this error.


-4503	A function has not returned the correct number of values expected by
the calling function.

See error -1320, which has replaced this error.


-4504	A validation error has occurred as a result of the VALIDATE command.

The type of a VALIDATE variable cannot be converted to the type of the
validation values. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4504	A validation error has occurred as a result of the VALIDATE command.

See error -1321, which has replaced this error for products other than
NewEra.


-4505	A report output file cannot be opened.

See error -1322, which has replaced this error.


-4506	A report output pipe cannot be opened.

See error -1323, which has replaced this error.


-4507	A report output file cannot be written to.

See error -1324, which has replaced this error.


-4508	PRINT FILE error - cannot open file filename for reading.

See error -1325, which has replaced this error.


-4509	An array variable has been referenced outside of its specified
dimensions.

An array bound has been exceeded, and array-bounds checking has been
turned on. Array-bounds checking can be turned on through the compiler
switch "-a" or the PRAGMA ARRAY BOUNDS statement. Only NewEra returns
this error.


-4509	An array variable has been referenced outside of its specified
dimensions.

See error -1326, which has replaced this error for products other than
NewEra.


-4511	A temporary table needed for a report could not be created in the
selected database. The user must have permission to create tables in the
selected database.

See error -1328, which has replaced this error.


-4512	A database index could not be created for a temporary database table
needed for a report.

See error -1329, which has replaced this error.


-4513	Incorrectly formed hexadecimal value.

The hexadecimal digits are a to f and 0 to 9. Possibly you included an
illegal character where NewEra expected a hexadecimal value or its
sign.


-4513	A number used as a DISPLAY AT location or SCROLL count must be
positive.

For a DISPLAY AT statement, see error -1135, which has replaced this
error. Since Version 4.0, the SCROLL statement accepts negative
numbers.


-4514	A row could not be inserted into a temporary report table.

See error -1330, which has replaced this error.


-4515	A row could not be fetched from a temporary report table.

See error -1331, which has replaced this error.


-4516	A character variable has referenced subscripts that are out of range.

See error -1332, which has replaced this error.


-4517	Strings of length > 512 cannot be returned from function calls.

See error -1333, which has replaced this error.


-4518	The 4GL program cannot allocate any more space for temporary string
storage.

Either the program is attempting to return more than 32,768 bytes of
CHAR, VARCHAR, or CHAR(*) values from a function, or the number of
bytes of temporary CHAR(*) variables that the program creates
implicitly has exceeded 32,768. Only NewEra returns this error.


-4518	The 4GL program cannot allocate any more space for temporary string
storage.

For products other than NewEra, see error -1334, which has replaced
this error.


-4527	Undefined opcode in function name.

The p-code file for the program (whose file suffix is .4go) has become
corrupted. Recompile at least the module that contains the named
function (preferably the whole program) and run it again. If the same
error occurs, make sure that you are running both fglpc and fglgo at
the identical version level. If you are, refer to the Administrator's
Guide or Reference for your database server, for additional diagnostics.
Contact GBase Technical Support with the
diagnostic information.


-4535	Bad store include table syntax "file1" "file2".

An internal error has occurred.

The code that generates the INCLUDE statement, the Application Builder
front-end code that generated the INCLUDE statement is out of
synchronization with the Application Builder back-end code that handles
the insertion and removal of data from the database.

An extraordinarily large save in which the filenames exceed 64
kilobytes could also cause this error.


-4536	Database open failed.

The Application Builder could not open the database. A network failure,
GBase NET failure, or an incorrect value in the DBPATH environment
variable could cause this error. Check the DBPATH setting, and run
SETNET. Also verify that the UNIX host is functioning correctly.


-4538	No database name has been given.

The Application Builder attempted to execute an OPEN DATABASE command
without specifying the name of the database. Check the "database=..."
line in your gbasedbt.ini file. If you want to use the default
database, set the line to "database=syspg4gl".


-4542	Attempt to upgrade the design database failed.

The Application Builder attempted to upgrade an older style database
from GBase 4GL to a new style that uses NewEra failed. This process
involves creating a series of new tables and modifying and moving the
data.

The error might occur because of lack of permissions. The owner of the database
should perform the upgrade.

The error could be due to a full disk. The upgrade does not erase old
information until it has been written and verified, and then only if
requested. The amount of free space that an upgrade requires is
approximately equal to the amount that the older database uses.


-4543	Invalid delimiter. Do not use '\\', hex digits (0-9, A-F, a-f), or
space.

Use a delimiter other than any of the 22 forbidden symbols that are
listed here.


-4555	Variable size cannot exceed 65535 bytes.

You have attempted to create a variable whose total size exceeds 65535.
Arrays can consume space more quickly than you might notice. A
simple array A[100,100] of CHAR(6) would consume 10,000 x 7 - 70,000
bytes.


-4556	Object size cannot exceed 65535 bytes.

You have attempted to create an object whose total size exceeds 65535.
Arrays can consume space more quickly than you might notice. A simple
array A[100,100] of CHAR(6) would consume 10,000 x 7 - 70,000 bytes.


-4600	No form by specified name found.

The form specified cannot be found as a file named formname.frm.
The system looks in the current directory, and in each directory
named in the DBPATH environment variable. Possibly the form
name was misspelled, or the form file might have been renamed, or
possibly the DBPATH variable is not set correctly.


-4601	No 4GL module by specified name found.

The source module specified cannot be found as a file module.4gl.
The system looks in the current directory and in directories named
in the DBPATH environment variable. Possibly the module name
was misspelled, or the file might have been renamed, or possibly the
DBPATH variable is not set correctly.


-4602	No 4GL program by specified name found.

The multi-module program specified cannot be found in the
program database. Possibly the module name was misspelled.
Possibly, if the DBPATH environment variable has been changed
since the program was defined, you are now using a different
program database than before.


-4603	No executable 4GL program by specified name found.

The executable program specified cannot be found as a file
module.4go. The system looks in the current directory and in
directories named in the DBPATH environment variable. Possibly
the name was misspelled, or the file might have been renamed, or
possibly the DBPATH variable is not set correctly.


-4604	Errors found in 4GL module.

Select the Correct menu choice. You will be shown the module
source with error messages included.


-4607	The following errors were discovered during compilation.

Errors were found that are not related to specific lines of source code,
for example, undefined functions. There may be .err files as well
that you can display to see more error messages. Modify the
program definition and the source modules as required and
recompile.


-4608	The compilation of the program was not successful.

There should be other error messages visible, or in a file with a suffix
of .err, to explain the lack of success.


-4609	Insufficient memory is available to complete program compilation.

The only practical recourse is to divide the source files into smaller
units.


-4610	Warnings found in 4GL module.

You have compiled with the -ansi command line option, which asks
that you be warned about any use of SQL that does not comply with
ANSI standard SQL. The compiler did find one or more uses of
GBase extensions to standard SQL. Edit the module.err file to see
the warning messages.


-4611	There is no 4GL source available for this program.

You have requested that a program be compiled, but the system
cannot locate one of the module source files. It is looking for files
with the suffix .4gl and having the names shown in the program
source list. It looks in the current directory and in directories named
in the DBPATH environment variable. Check that the program is
correctly defined, and locate the source modules. Make sure that the
DBPATH environment variable is correctly set.


-4612	Data validation table does not currently exist for this database.

The program uses a statement such as VALIDATE or INITIALIZE
that requires input from the syscolval table; however that table
does not exist in the current database. Possibly it has not been
created (using the Column Attributes Dictionary utility in Windows
or the upscol utility in DOS and UNIX); possibly it was inadvertently
dropped from the database; or possibly the database now being
used is not the one you expected, owing to a change in the value of
the DBPATH environment variable.


-4613	Screen display attribute table does not currently exist for this
database.

The program uses a statement that requires input from the syscolatt
table; however that table does not exist in the current database.
Possibly it has not been created (using the Column Attributes
Dictionary utility in Windows or the upscol utility in DOS and
UNIX); possibly it was inadvertently dropped from the database; or
possibly the database now being used is not the one you expected,
owing to a change in the value of the DBPATH environment variable.


-4614	A program already exists by this name.

You have specified as a new program one that already
appears in the program database. Programs must have unique
names. Choose a different name.


-4615	Invalid program name.

You have specified an unacceptable name for a new program. The
name may be too long (at most 10 characters in some operating
systems, at most 8 in others). If not, make sure that it starts with a
letter and contains only letters, digits, and underscore characters.


-4616	The 4GL program database does not exist. Create via
PROGRAM section.

In UNIX, the program database, named syspgm4gl, is not accessible.
If you select the Program menu option you will be asked if you want
to create it. If you think that this database ought to exist already (for
instance, if you have previously defined multi-module programs),
then exit the Programmer's Environment and check the value of the
DBPATH environment variable. It determines which databases are
visible (if you are using the GBase SE). If it is
correct, or if you are using an OnLine database server, then the
program database either never existed or has been dropped.


-4617	You may not edit a program located on a different device.
You cannot specify a pathname to a source file in a directory that is
not on the device that holds your current directory. Use a system
utility to copy the source file to your current directory (or to a
directory on the current device).


-4618	An error has occurred in accessing the requested file.

Something prevented the program from reading the file you
specified. Look for other messages including operating system
messages that might give more details.


-4620	GBase ESQL/C is not installed on the system.

In order to use ESQL/C modules (source files with a .ec suffix) in a
program definition, you must have GBase ESQL/C installed in your
system. If you believe it has been installed, review
the installation procedure, because the product is not visible in the
directory named in the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable.


-4621	Error occurred while writing to output file filename.
While writing to the named file the operating system reported an
error. The problem may be a full disk or a hardware failure. Look for
operating system error messages that give more information.


-4622	No runable 4GL program by specified name found.

The program you asked to run is not accessible as a file named
program.4go. 4GL looks in the current directory and in directories
named in the DBPATH environment variable. Check the spelling of
the program name. If it is as you intended, check the existence of the
file and the setting of DBPATH. Possibly you need to compile the
program before running it.


-4623	memory allocation error.

It has proven impossible to allocate memory for a small work area of
fixed size needed by a print function such as USING or ASCII. The
amount of memory needed is small; almost any reduction in
program size should avoid the error.


-4624	Owner name identifier has exceeded 8 characters in length.

The name shown appears in this statement where an owner name is
expected, for example preceding the name of a table: identifier.table.
However, the name exceeds eight characters, and the database
server only allows eight-character owner names. Review the
punctuation of the statement and the spelling of the identifier.


-4625	FIXTIME FAILED.

This is an internal error. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact the GBase Technical Support.


-4626	Could not open file filename.

Either the file does not exist, or your account does not have
permission to access it, or some hardware failure occurred while it
was being opened. Verify that the file exists; if it does, look for
operating system error messages for more information.


-4627	The program cannot exit an INPUT statement at this point because it
is not within an INPUT statement.

The current statement is EXIT INPUT but it is not in the context of an
INPUT statement. Inspect the source module backward from this
point to determine what happened to the INPUT statement. Perhaps
the current statement was misplaced, or perhaps an END INPUT
statement was inserted at an earlier point.


-4628	The program cannot exit a DISPLAY ARRAY statement at this point
because it is not within a DISPLAY ARRAY statement.

The current statement is EXIT DISPLAY but it is not in the context of
an DISPLAY statement. Inspect the source module backward from
this point to determine what happened to the DISPLAY statement.
Perhaps the current statement was misplaced, or perhaps an END
DISPLAY statement was inserted at an earlier point.


-4629	Load from file filename failed.

The LOAD statement failed, either because of an error reading the
named file, or because of an error converting data from one form to
another. Look for other messages from 4GL or the operating system
for more information.


-4630	Unload to file filename failed.

The UNLOAD statement failed, either because of a problem with the
SELECT statement or because of an error producing the output file.
Look for other messages from 4GL or the operating system for more
information.

-4631	Startfield of DATETIME or INTERVAL qualifiers must come earlier in
the time-list than its endfield.

The qualifier for a DATETIME or INTERVAL consists of start TO end,
where the start and end are chosen from this list:

YEAR MONTH DAY HOUR MINUTE SECOND FRACTION

The keyword for the start field must come earlier in the list than, or
be the same as, the keyword for the end field. For example, qualifiers
of DAY TO FRACTION and MONTH TO MONTH are valid but one of
MINUTE TO HOUR is not.


-4632	Parenthetical precision of FRACTION must be between 1 and 5. No
precision can be specified for other time units.

In a DATETIME qualifier only the FRACTION field may have a
precision in parentheses, and it must be a single digit from 1 to 5.
Check the DATETIME qualifiers in the current statement; one of them
violates these rules. The first field of an INTERVAL qualifier may also
have a parenthesized precision from 1 to 5. Consult the SQL
reference material for the distinction between DATETIME and
INTERVAL.


-4633	DATETIME units can only be YEAR, MONTH, DAY, HOUR, MINUTE,
SECOND, and FRACTION.

In the current statement there is an error of some sort either in the
qualifier of a DATETIME or INTERVAL value, or in the argument of
the UNITS function. The only valid precision keywords for these
uses are listed in the message. Possibly a keyword has been
misspelled, or possibly some other syntax error has prevented 4GL
from recognizing the keywords.

-4634	Symbol name must be a SQL database item name -- either a database
name, a tablename or a column name.

The name shown is used in a context that suggests you intend to
name a database or an item in a database. However, there is nothing
of that name in the current database. Check the spelling of name. If it
is as you intended, then make sure that the current database is the
one you meant to use.

-4635	Cannot create temporary file filename to contain a blob variable.

A TEXT or BYTE variable has been located in a temporary file using
the LOCATE statement. The current statement assigns a value into
that variable, so 4GL attempted to create the temporary file, but an
error occurred. Possibly there is no disk space, or possibly your
account does not have permission to create a temporary file. 4GL
creates a temporary file in the directory specified by the DBTEMP
environment variable. Look for operating system error messages

that might give more information. Check the value of DBTEMP.

-4638	The maximum size for varchar must be between 1 and 32765.

To store strings longer than 32765 characters you must use the CHAR
data type.

-4639	Real column name cannot be specified here. The symbol "*" is
expected instead.

When defining a RECORD LIKE a table you may not write the name
of a single column. Use an asterisk to mean all columns.

-4640	Table name is expected here.

When defining a variable or record LIKE a table you must specify a
table that exists in the current database (the database selected by the
first DATABASE statement in the source file). Only tables in that
database can be named in a LIKE definition. Review the spelling of
the name and the choice of databases.

-4641	Column name is expected here.

When defining a variable LIKE a column you must specify a table
and column. The name here is not a column that appears in the
current database (the database selected by the first DATABASE
statement in the source file). Review the spelling of the name and the
choice of databases.

-4642	Subscripting is NOT allowed here.

This message is not returned by any current GBase product. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact the GBase
Technical Support Department.

-4643	A field in the INTERVAL qualifier is out of range. The acceptable
ranges are from YEAR to MONTH and from DAY TO FRACTION.

An INTERVAL may specify a period of years and/or months, or a
period of days and/or parts of days. However, an interval value
may not mix months and days. The qualifier for an INTERVAL may
use fields from YEAR and MONTH, or fields from DAY through
FRACTION, but it may not have fields from both sets.

-4644	The HELP and ATTRIBUTE clauses each can be specified only once.

Within the scope of an INPUT or DISPLAY ARRAY statement, only
one of each of these clauses may be given. Search backward in the
source module from this statement; locate all the statements of this
type, and reconcile them into one.

-4645	4GL does not support returning a blob variable.

The RETURN statement may not name either a BYTE or a TEXT value.
The only way to return such a value from a function is through a
global variable.


-4646	The specified WORDWRAP RIGHT MARGIN value is out of range. It
must be greater than or equal to the current column and less than or
equal to the report's right margin.

Modify this PRINT statement to specify a right margin for the
WORDWRAP function that does not exceed the report right margin.
The report right margin is set in the OUTPUT section of the report.

-4647	Cannot open file filename to read a TEXT variable value.

This PRINT statement refers to a file or to a TEXT variable has been
located in a file using the LOCATE statement. When 4GL attempted
to open the file to fetch the value an error occurred. Possibly the file
does not exist; possibly your account does not have permission to
access it; possibly there was a hardware error. Verify that the file
exists and is spelled as shown; then look for operating system
messages giving more details.

-4648	I/O error while running the 4GL C or p-code compiler.

The compiler received an unexpected operating system error code
while opening an input or an output file (a source file, a listing file,
an error file etc.) Look for operating system errors that may give
more information.

-4649	I/O error while running fglc: %s.

This messages is not returned by any current GBase product. If it
appears, see the discussion of error -4648. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact the GBase Technical Support.

-4650	Cannot find Runner runner.

Either the normal program runner or the debugger could not be
found in the directory named by the GBASEDBTDIR environment
variable. Check the setting of the environment variable.

-4651	The p-code compiler is not contained in your path.

The source module or program cannot be compiled because the
compiler cannot be executed. It should be located in the bin
directory pointed to by the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable;
however, that directory also must be listed in the PATH environment
variable before the program can be called.

-4652	The function function name can only be used within an INPUT or
CONSTRUCT statement.

The function shown is being used outside of an INPUT or
CONSTRUCT statement. However, it returns a result that is only
meaningful in the context of INPUT or CONSTRUCT. Review the code
to make sure that an END INPUT or END CONSTRUCT statement has
not been misplaced. Review the operation and use of the function to
make sure you understand it.

-4653	No more than one BEFORE or AFTER INPUT/CONSTRUCT/MENU
clause can appear in an INPUT/CONSTRUCT/MENU statement.

There may be only one BEFORE block of statements to initialized
each of these statement types. Make sure that the scope of all your
INPUT, CONSTRUCT and MENU statements is correctly marked with
END statements. Then combine all the preparation code into a single
BEFORE block for each one.

Note: Error -4653 with this meaning is issued by 4GL after Version 4.1.


-4654	CHAR size should be in the range of 1 to 32766.

The program has declared a variable of type CHAR with a size that is
out of the acceptable range.


-4655	Invalid range specified for VARCHAR.

The declaration of the fort VARCHAR (maximum, reserved) has incorrectly
specified a value for reserved that is not between 0 and maximum,
inclusive.


-4656	CANCEL INSERT can only be used in the BEFORE INSERT
clause of an INPUT ARRAY statement.

The CANCEL INSERT statement is being used outside of
BEFORE INSERT clause of an INPUT ARRAY. Review the code
to make sure that CANCEL INSERT has not been used
anywhere else except in the BEFORE INSERT clause.


-4657	CANCEL DELETE can only be used in the BEFORE DELETE
clause of an INPUT ARRAY statement.

The CANCEL DELETE statement is being used outside of
BEFORE DELETE clause of an INPUT ARRAY. Review the code
to make sure that CANCEL DELETE has not been used
anywhere else except in the BEFORE DELETE clause.


-4658	Constants are not allowed as cursor names.

Identifiers that are used for dynamic cursor names must be variables.


-4659	The CHAR (*) type is not allowed for report parameters.

A formal argument cannot accept a character data type of unspecified
length, such as CHAR(*).


-4660	Report parameters cannot take object references.

A formal argument cannot specify a class name (or FOREIGN) as its data
type.


-4661	Access control restrictions are not allowed for this intrinsic member
function.

The intrinsic member functions !copy() and !derive() must have PUBLIC
access control, which is the default access control for member
functions.


-4663	ODBC error from engine - "text".

The -useccl compiler switch has been used. An ODBC error, shown here as
"text", has been detected.


-4664	CCL class declarations are required with the "-useccl" switch. Add
INCLUDE SYSTEM "ixstmt.4gh" to your module.

To compile a REPORT or the MAIN program block with the -useccl switch,
the user needs to include ixstmt.4gh.

This statement has calls to functions nested within the parameter lists
of other function calls, to a level exceeding four. A maximum level of
four is supported, as in the following expression:
Afun(2-Bfun(3+Cfun(4*Dfun(5))))

Rewrite the expression to store the result of the innermost function
calls in a variable, and use the variable in the expression.


-4665	Warning: Report page header or trailer output must end with a newline,
so a newline will be automatically appended.

A report header or trailer contained a semicolon (;) at the end of the
line. In the body of the report, a trailing semicolon suppresses the
creation of a new line. The header and trailer must end with a new-line
character to perform properly. The compiler has ignored the semicolon.
To prevent this warning message from appearing, remove the semicolon
from the source code.


-4666	Problem encountered in populating the repository.

For a detailed description of the problem, see the repold.log file in
either $GBASEDBTDIR\temp or the current directory.


-4667	Class name is only forward declared in this file.

Updating the repository with a forward-declared class is discouraged.


-4668	The report output, specified by a START REPORT
statement, is not any of file, pipe, screen, printer,
pipe in line mode, or pipe in form mode.

The output of a report can be sent only to any of file,
pipe (in form or line modes), screen, or printer.


-4669	The function fgl_setcurrline can only be used in
INPUT/DISPLAY ARRAY block.

The function is being used outside of an INPUT/DISPLAY
ARRAY block. Review the code to make sure that
fgl_setcurrline has not been used anywhere else except
in the INPUT/DISPLAY ARRAY block.


-4670	Multiple INTO clauses cannot be used inside SQL...END
SQL block.

Only one INTO clause can be used inside the SQL...
END SQL block. Review the code to make sure that more
than one INTO clause has not been used.


-4671	Missing END SQL after semicolon(;) in SQL...END
SQL block.

A optional semicolon(;) can be used to mark the end of
an SQL statement inside the SQL...END SQL block. The
program has encountered a semicolon(;) but could not
find END SQL immediately after that. Review the code to
make sure that the END SQL directive appears immediately
after the semicolon(;).


-4701	The -V option must be used on its own with no other arguments.

The -V option requests that the program display the version number and
then terminate. No other options are allowed with this option. To
display the version number, repeat the command, but with only the -V
option.


-4702	No program was specified.

The command cannot be executed because you did not specify the program
name. Repeat the command with the name of a NewEra program as an
argument.


-4703	Invalid option name.

You specified an option that the program does not recognize. For the
valid options of this command, refer to your documentation. Repeat the
command, using only valid options.


-4704	Option name requires an argument.

You specified an option that the program does not recognize. For the
valid options of this command, refer to your documentation. Repeat the
command, using only valid options.



-4801	Only 1, 2 or 3 can be used with WITH DIMENSIONS.

The syntax for declaring a dynamic array is
DEFINE arrname DYNAMIC ARRAY [with n dimensions] OF TYPE.
The value of n can be 1,2, or 3. If not specified, a 
default of 1 is assumed.

-4802	Dynamic array of a record with BLOB as one of the members 
is not allowed.

A dynamic array of records cannot have a BLOB or TEXT data type as one
of its members. 

-4803	The variable used in ALLOCATE/DEALLOCATE/RESIZE ARRAY
statement can only be a variable of the DYNAMIC ARRAY type.

The subject of an ALLOCATE, DEALLOCATE, or RESIZE statement
must be a variable of type DYNAMIC ARRAY. The variable can
be a dynamic array of any simple type or a 4GL RECORD type.


-4804	Subscripting cannot be applied to the variable "%s"
because it is not an array variable.

Only variables of the type ARRAY or DYNAMIC ARRAY can have
subscripts applied to them. If the compiler encounters a subscript
operation on a variable of some other type, it generates this error.


-4805	The variable on which ALLOCATE/DEALLOCATE/RESIZE ARRAY
statement is to act must be a dynamic array.

A variable of the type DYNAMIC ARRAY can be the subject of 
ALLOCATE, DEALLOCATE, or RESIZE statements. The variable can
be a dynamic array of any simple type or a 4GL RECORD type.


-4806	The dynamic array has been allocated already.

The array has been allocated using an ALLOCATE statement. 
Use DEALLOCATE before trying to ALLOCATE it again, or use RESIZE
to change the extent sizes.


-4807	Accessing elements of a dynamic array that has not been allocated is 
not allowed.

The dynamic array has not been allocated. Allocate a dynamic array
with the ALLOCATE DYNAMIC ARRAY statement. The syntax is ALLOCATE ARRAY <arrayname>[extent information]
See the 4GL Reference Manual for more details.


-4808	RECORD nesting is not allowed when DYNAMIC ARRAY OF RECORD is involved.

You cannot define a RECORD element where the top level record is
a DYNAMIC ARRAY type. Replace the top level DYNAMIC
ARRAY OF RECORD with an ARRAY type.


-4809	DEALLOCATE ARRAY statement can only have the array name. It cannot 
have subscripts.

You deallocate a dynamic array only by using the array name
without subscripts. You cannot use a statement like the one below, with a subscript:
DEALLOCATE ARRAY dynarr[10] 
Instead, use the statement as follows:
DEALLOCATE ARRAY dynarr


-4810	Subscript was missing on the dynamic array variable "%s" for ALLOCATE/RESIZE.

The ALLOCATE and RESIZE statements need the (new)size. If the subscripts
are missing, then this error is generated.
Example:
ALLOCATE ARRAY dynarr[10]


-4811	DYNAMIC ARRAY in a DYNAMIC ARRAY OF RECORD is not allowed.

You cannot have a DYNAMIC ARRAY inside a DYNAMIC ARRAY of RECORD.
Replace it with an ARRAY type.


-4813	Dynamic array ALLOCATE/RESIZE parameters must be positive and
non zero.

Check your RESIZE or ALLOCATE statement. Subscript values
must be positive and non zero.


-4814	Dynamic arrays passed/returned should be of similar
characteristics.

A dynamic array passed to functions or returned from a function:
a. Must be of the same type as the function passed/returned
b. Must have the same number of extents for both functions
c. If it is a dynamic array of record, must have both records the same size


-4815	Only dynamic arrays can be used for fgl_isdynarr_allocated or
fgl_dynarr_extentsize.

Use a DYNAMIC ARRAY only as an argument for the fgl_isdynarr_allocated function and as the first argument for
the fgl_dynarr_extentsize function.
The dynamic array name should be used without any subscripts.


-4816	Dynamic array used in fgl_dynarr_extentsize function should
be in ALLOCATEd state. 

The function can be used only with a dynamic array that 
has been allocated. Use the ALLOCATE ARRAY statement before
the fgl_dynarr_extentsize function is called.


-4817	The dynamic array for which fgl_dynarr_extentsize(dynarr, n)
is being used does not have the 'n'th dimension.

The array for which fgl_dynarr_extentsize function has been called 
does not have the nth dimension. Look at the array definition 
in the DEFINE DYNAMIC ARRAY statement and find out how many dimensions 
it has. 


-4818	Delimiter should be comma, when format is CSV. It should be a 
newline when format is TEXT.

When the format specified is CSV (Comma Separated Values), the delimiter must be 
Comma. Similarly if the format specified is text, the delimiter must be new-line.
Change the Delimiter accordingly.

-4819	Only LOAD, CSV and TEXT formats are supported.

The formats that can be specified are LOAD, CSV(Comma Separated values) and TEXT.
Specify the format of the file as either LOAD, CSV or TEXT.

-4820	Delimiter should be set only when format is specified.

The delimiter must be set only when format of the file is specified.
Specify the format of the file to either LOAD, CSV or TEXT and then 
specify the delimiter. 

-4821	The file file_name cannot be created or opened.
Accompanying OS message : OS_Message. 

Check that your username, has permission to create files in the specified directory. Look 
for the accompanying error messages from the operating system. Possibly the disk is full, 
or you have reached a limit on the number of open files. 

-4822	The file file_name cannot be closed. 
Accompanying OS message : OS_Message. 

The file cannot be closed. Look for the accompanying error messages from the operating 
system. Possibly the file is not opened, or the file descriptor specified may not be correct.

-4823	The file associated with the file descriptor may not be opened. 

The file descriptor specified may not be associated with a file. Possibly the file may already 
be closed or the file descriptor may be changed in the program. Revisit the program logic.

-4824	The file "%s" cannot be read.
Accompanying OS message : "%s". 

The file cannot be read. Check that your username, has permission to read the file. Look for the 
accompanying error messages from the operating system.  Possibly, the file is already closed, 
or the disk is full, or a hardware failure occurred. 

-4825	Seek on file file_name cannot be done.
Accompanying OS message : OS_Message.

Seek on the file cannot be done. Look for the accompanying error messages from the operating 
system. Possibly the file may already be closed or the file descriptor may be changed in the program.

-4826	The file file_name cannot be written.
Accompanying OS message : OS_Message.

The file cannot be written. Check that your username, has permission to write to the file. Look for 
the accompanying error messages from the operating system.  Possibly, the file is already closed, or 
the disk is full, or a hardware failure occurred.

-4827	The string in the file file_name is too long to fit in the variable.

The length of the variable is less than the length of the string read from the file. The String cannot be 
stored in the variable. Increase the size of the variable.

-4828	The field to be read from the file file_name should not be greater than 4096 bytes.

The length of the string read from the file exceeds 4096 bytes. Check the field in the file. Possibly, the 
file delimiter is misplaced.

-4829	Memory allocation error.

It has proven impossible to allocate memory for a small fixed size structure needed by a File IO function 
such as Open or Close. The amount of memory needed is small; almost any reduction in program size should 
avoid the error.

-4830	The variable var_name is not of type INTEGER or SMALLINT.  It cannot be 
used as a file descriptor. 

The variable used as a file descriptor must be an integer type. Specify a 
different variable, or redefine the one named.

-4831	The variable var_name is not of type INTEGER or SMALLINT.  It cannot be 
used to store offset bytes returned from the seek operation.

The variable used to store the offset bytes returned from the seek operation 
must be an integer type. Specify a different variable, or redefine the one named.

-4850	Insufficient space for formatted INTERVAL value.

The INTERVAL value could not be accommodated within the allocated buffer.

-4851	Invalid INTERVAL value.

The INTERVAL value has an invalid character.
The syntax of an INTERVAL value must begin with the character 'P'.

-4852	Invalid INTERVAL value.

The INTERVAL value has an invalid character.
Any hours, minutes, or seconds in the durationmust begin with 'T''.

-4853	Extra (non-blank) characters at the end of a interval value.

Only spaces can follow an INTERVAL literal. Inspect the INTERVAL values.

-4854	Invalid INTERVAL value.

An Invalid character is used as a marker in an INTERVAL value.  Valid markers are YMDTHMS.

-4855	Invalid INTERVAL value.

A Valid marker is used incorrectly in an INTERVAL value. Review the markers used for INTERVAL qualifiers like 
YMDTHMS to ensure they are used at the right place in the value.

-4856	No digits where digits required in INTERVAL value.

Review the INTERVAL value to ensure it is not missing a field.
In an INTERVAL literal, the first field is a count and can have as many digits as the qualifier specifies.

-4857	Too many digits in field of INTERVAL value.

The first field of an INTERVAL literal must contain either 1 or 2 digits 
(if it is not a YEAR) or 2 or 4 digits (if it is a YEAR).
Review the INTERVAL literals in this statement and correct them as necessary.

-4858	Invalid INTERVAL value.

The INTERVAL value has repeated mark letters. An INTERVAL value can specify 
either a period of years and/or months, or a period of days and/or parts of days. 
It cannot specify both years and/or months and days and/or parts of days.
The INTERVAL value must follow the first to last format and cannot have the same units repeated.

-4859	Invalid INTERVAL value.

The INTERVAL value has an invalid sequence of mark letters. 
An INTERVAL value can contain either a year-month interval or a day-time interval.
An INTERVAL value must follow the  first to last format l. The qualifier for an
 INTERVAL can specify fields from YEAR and MONTH, or fields from DAY through 
FRACTION, but it  can not specify fields from both sets.

-4860	Invalid INTERVAL value.

Fraction only allowed in seconds in INTERVAL value and 
decimal point should be between second and fraction.
Review the literal qualifier for missing or misplaced punctuation.

-4861	Output buffer not big enough to hold the DATETIME value.

This error is returned when the function is called and the address 
space for the output buffer is null or smaller than the format-string length.

-4862	Invalid DATETIME format.

The XSD format of a DATETIME value is not supported.

-4863	Invalid DATETIME format.

The DATETIME value does not match the required format.

The DATETIME value is missing at least one field, or repeating a field value, or has a 
missing, misplaced, or repeated delimiter, or has improper Markers
in the xsd DATETIME value.

-4864	Invalid character in DATETIME value.

The form of a DATETIME literal is very limited and can
contain only decimal digits and the following delimiters: the hyphen
between year, month, and day numbers; the space between day and hour;
the colon between hour, minute, and second; and the decimal point
between second and fraction.

Any error is returned if Any other characters or any of the allowed characters are used
in the wrong order.

-4865	Field value out of acceptable range in DATETIME value.

The DATETIME value contains at least one incorrect field or is missing at least one field.

Possible errors include: Using zero for the year; using numbers other than 
1 to 12 for the month, 1 to 31 for the day, 0 to 23 for the hour, or 0 to 59 for the minute or second; 
using an inappropriate number for the month; and using a fraction with too many digits for the specified precision.

-4866	Invalid DATETIME format .

The Field value is too wide for an xsd DATETIME value. 

-4986	Communication between fgld daemon and application server was closed.

Connection between fgld daemon and application server was interrupted, check
if application server is able to send request to fgld daemon running.

-4987	The supplied argument does not match with a function definition

Match the supplied argument with the function definition described in the WSDL file 
and correct the argument either in the configuration file or in the 4GL client application.

-4988	The number of environment values received is different from the number expected

The client has not provided the sufficient number of environment values. 
Ensure that the client application correctly processes the 
GBASEDBTSERVER, CLIENT_LOCALE, and DB_LOCALE in the code.

-4989	A client is attempting to invoke a web service that does not exist

Match the SERVICENAME in the subscriber configuration file with the web service name in the WSDL file.

-4990	Unrecoverable error in application server

The application server encountered an unrecoverable error. 
Note the scenario and contact GBase Technical Support.

-4991	Operation failed while converting data from the XSD format to the SQL format

Ensure that input values match the input parameter types in WSDL file.

-4992	Message protocol error

Note the scenario and contact GBase Technical Support.

-4993	Supplied service name or operation name  (%s) cannot be found

The given web-service name or the operation cannot not be found. 
Match the SERVICENAME in the subscriber configuration file with the web service name in the WSDL file. 
Or, match the [FUNCTION]...NAME that follows the SOAP_NAME tag in the subscriber configuration file 
with the operation name in the WSDL file.

-4994	The number of inputs received does not match the number of inputs defined in the web service

Match the supplied input argument(s) with the input argument(s) function definition 
described in the WSDL file and correct the argument either in the configuration file or 
in the 4GL client application.

-4995	The number of outputs received does not match the number of outputs defined in the web service

Match the supplied output argument(s) with the output argument(s) function definition 
described in the WSDL file and correct the argument either in the configuration file or 
in the 4GL client application.

-4996	Unknown host name or port number

Ensure that the web service publisher has:
	1) Set the environment variables FGLD_HOSTNAME and FGLD_PORTNUMBER 
	2) Run the fgld on the FGLD_PORTNUMBER specified
	3) Run Axis2C on the same terminal where fgld is running

-4997	Port number  (%s) must be in the range 1024 - 65535

The port number set in the FGLD_PORTNUMBER environment variable is not in the valid range 1024 - 65535.

-4998	Operation failed while converting data from the SQL format to the XSD format

Ensure that output values match the output parameter types in WSDL file.


-5000	CSM error: <text>

A CSM (Communications Support Module), in the database server or in the
client, detected an error.

This error code is a general CSM error code. It can be used by individual
CSMs to reflect different error conditions. The text provides clues about
the possible cause of the error.

If the confidentiality option is enabled for a particular CSM, you might
see the following example of this error code: "CSM error: CSM: received
message of unexpected type." This implies that the CSM on the user's side
(either database server side or client application side) cannot interpret
the messages it receives. Make sure that the confidentiality option is
set for both the database server and the client application.

Check your sqlhosts file and CSS configuration file. Check the error
message on the other side (either database server side or client
application side) for more clues about the possible cause of the error.

Also make sure that the CSM you are using is supported by the database
server or the client SDK. If the problem persists, contact
GBase Technical Support or the CSM vendor. Have the following information
available: CSS configuration files and sqlhosts information for both
the client and the database server.