---
title: 03.Error (-101)-(-200)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:30:09.409Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:11:35.218Z
---

-101	ISAM error: file is not open.

The program attempted to use an unopened file, table, partition,
tablespace, or other storage object, or one of these whose access
mode did not support the requested operation (for example, an
attempt to write to a file that was opened in read-only mode).

If the error recurs, refer to the information on trapping errors in
your Administrator's Guide or Reference for additional diagnostics.
Contact GBase Technical Support with the diagnostic information.


-102	ISAM error: illegal argument to ISAM function.

A parameter that was presented to one of the C-ISAM functions is
outside the range of acceptable values. For C-ISAM programs, review the
parameters that were used in this function call, and compare them to
the documentation for the function. If the error recurs, refer
to the information on trapping errors in your Administrator's
Guide or Reference to acquire additional diagnostics. Contact GBase 
Technical Support with the diagnostic information.


-103	ISAM error: illegal key descriptor (too many parts or too long).

The ISAM processor has been given an invalid key descriptor. For C-ISAM
programs, review the key descriptor. Each key descriptor has a maximum
of 8 parts and 120 characters. If the error recurs, refer to the
information on trapping errors in your Administrator's Guide or Reference to
Appendix entitled "Trapping Errors" in your Administrator's Guide or Reference 
to acquire additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support
with the diagnostic information.


-104	ISAM error: too many files open.

The ISAM processor has reached its limit of open files. For C-ISAM
programs, review the program logic and change it so that fewer files
are open concurrently. Use isclose to close unneeded files. For SQL
products, this query is too complex; it uses too many tables
concurrently. For example, a trigger procedure running with PDQ
enabled can open many tables during constraints processing.
Perform the query in steps, and use temporary tables.


-105	ISAM error: bad ISAM file format.

The contents of an ISAM file (table or index) have been corrupted. For
C-ISAM, if you used transaction logging, you can use the isrecover
program to recover the file. Otherwise, re-create the file or restore
it from backup. For SQL products, use the bcheck or secheck utility to
get more information on the problem and possibly correct it (use
the oncheck utility (or tbcheck with GBase OnLine versions 6.0 and
earlier). If the utility cannot recover the table or index, you will
have to re-create or restore it.


-106	ISAM error: non-exclusive access.

The ISAM processor has been asked to add or drop an index but it does
not have exclusive access. For C-ISAM programs, the file must be opened
with exclusive access before you perform this operation. Review the
program logic, and make sure that it opens this file by passing the
ISEXCLLOCK flag to isopen. For SQL products, the database server
returns this error when an exclusive lock is required on a table. For
example, this error appears when a second user tries to alter a table
that the first user has locked.
Or the ISAM processor could not obtain access to the requested table or 
index because it has been opened exclusively by another user.
This condition is normally transient, retry operation after some delay.  


-107	ISAM error: record is locked.

Another user request has locked the record that you requested or the
file (table) that contains it. This condition is normally transient. A
program can recover by rolling back the current transaction, waiting a
short time, and re-executing the operation. For interactive SQL, redo
the operation. For C-ISAM programs, review the program logic and make
sure that it can handle this case, which is a normal event in
multiprogramming systems. You can obtain exclusive access to a table by
passing the ISEXCLLOCK flag to isopen. For SQL programs, review the
program logic and make sure that it can handle this case, which is a
normal event in multiprogramming systems. The simplest way to handle
this error is to use the statement SET LOCK MODE TO WAIT. For bulk
updates, see the LOCK TABLE statement and the EXCLUSIVE clause of the
DATABASE statement.


-108	ISAM error: key already exists.

The ISAM processor has been asked to create an index that already
exists. For C-ISAM programs, review the program logic. The program must
delete this existing index before it defines another. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical
Support.


-109	ISAM error: the key is the file's primary key.

The ISAM processor has been asked to delete the primary key index. For
C-ISAM programs, the isdelindex call cannot delete the primary key. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-110	ISAM error: end or beginning of the file.

Reading rows sequentially, forward or backward, the ISAM processor has
reached one end of the file (table). For C-ISAM programs, this message
is the normal signal for end of file. Use a different retrieval mode of
isread to reposition the file. For SQL products, see the SQL error
message or return code.


-111	ISAM error: no record found.

The ISAM processor cannot locate the requested record. For C-ISAM
programs, no record was found with the requested index value or record
number, depending on the retrieval mode in use. Make sure that the
correct index is in use. For SQL products, see the SQL error message or
return code. Probably no row was found for this query.


-112	ISAM error: there is no current record.

The ISAM processor has been asked to return the current record, but
none has been established. For C-ISAM programs, review the program
logic. Before the program uses the ISCURR retrieval mode, it must use
another retrieval mode, such as ISFIRST, to establish a current record.
If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-113	ISAM error: the file is locked.

Another user request has opened the file (table) that was requested in
exclusive mode. In systems that use files for locking, a tablename.lok file
exists. Possibly such a file was left behind when another program terminated
abnormally. If you are sure that is the case, you can release the lock by
emptying that file. Lock files are not used in many systems, and they are
never used with GBase Database Server or GBase Database Server.

This error occurs with GBase Database Server or GBase
Server when a user attempts to access a table that has been locked.

For C-ISAM programs, rerun the program after the file is unlocked. For
SQL products, tables are locked explicitly using the LOCK TABLE statement
and implicitly during the execution of the CREATE INDEX or ALTER TABLE
statement. Rerun the program or query when the table is unlocked.

If you get this error (-113) when using a transaction isolation mode of
REPEATABLE READ or SERIALIZABLE, and if your query did not use an index
(and therefore had to use a sequential scan of the entire table), the cause
of the error might be that another user had either an exclusive lock or a
promotable lock on at least one row in the table. If you are in REPEATABLE
READ or SERIALIZABLE mode and your query requires a scan (search) of every
single record in the table to find all the records that meet the conditions
in the WHERE clause, then the engine will need to lock every record in the
table to maintain the repeatability of the read. In practice, rather than
locking every single record, the engine will try to lock the entire table.
But if there are any exclusive locks, or even promotable locks, on any row
in the table, then the engine will not be able to get a shared lock on the
entire table, and the query will fail.


-114	ISAM error: the file name is too long.

The ISAM processor has been asked to open or create a file with a
filename longer than 10 characters. For C-ISAM programs, this length
exceeds the maximum for the product. Choose a shorter filename. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-115	ISAM error: cannot create lock file.

The ISAM processor has been asked to access a file or row using
locking. Because this operating system uses files for locking, ISAM
must create a tablename.lok file. When it tried to do so, it received
an error code from the operating system. The disk might be full, or
your account might not have write permission in the relevant directory.
Look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information.


-116	ISAM error: cannot allocate memory.

The ISAM processor needed to allocate memory for data storage but was
unable to do so. A problem may exist in the operating system; look for
operating-system error messages that might give more information. One
cause of this error might be selecting a row that contains large BYTE
or TEXT columns into a temporary table or as part of an INSERT or
UPDATE. In some releases, an entire row that includes BLOB values is
buffered in memory. For C-ISAM programs, review the program to look for
ways that it can use less memory. For SQL products, simplify the
program, form, or report if possible.


-117	ISAM error: bad custom collating sequence.

No current GBase product displays this message. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-118	ISAM error: cannot read log record.

The ISAM processor is trying to roll back a transaction or recover a
file but has encountered an error while reading the transaction log.
Look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information. Use the dblog or selog utility to get more information
about the problem. If the file (table) cannot be recovered, you will
have to re-create it or restore it from backup.


-119	ISAM error: bad log record.

The ISAM processor is trying to roll back a transaction or recover a
file but has encountered bad data in a transaction log record. The
dblog or selog utility can be used to get more information about the
problem. If the file (table) cannot be recovered, you will have to
re-create it or restore it from backup.


-120	ISAM error: cannot open log file.

The ISAM processor is trying to open the transaction log file but has
received an error from the operating system. Look for operating-system
error messages that might give more information. For C-ISAM programs,
review the parameter passed to islogopen. Make sure that it specifies
the correct filename of an existing, writable log file and that it
includes a path if the file is not in the current directory. For SQL
products, the START DATABASE statement establishes the transaction log
file. Make sure that the log file still exists in the same directory
location as when START DATABASE was issued and that your account has
write access to it.


-121	ISAM error: cannot write log record.

The ISAM processor is trying to add a record to the transaction log but
has received an error from the operating system. The disk might be
full. Look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information. The transaction-log file can grow quite large. To reduce
its size, you must do two things. First, make a backup copy of the data
file (for C-ISAM) or all database files (for SQL). Second, make the
transaction-log file an empty file. If you perform these steps
routinely, you can control the size of the log file.


-122	ISAM error: transaction not available.

The ISAM processor has been asked to mark the start or end of a
transaction, but transaction logging is not in effect. For C-ISAM
programs, this file was not opened with logging. Review the calls to
isopen, and make sure that the ISTRANS parameter is included. For SQL
products, this database does not support transaction logging. If you
are using the database server, have the database server administrator
enable logging for this database. Otherwise, use the START DATABASE
statement to begin transaction logging. In all cases, logging should
only start immediately after the database has been fully backed up.


-123	ISAM error: no shared memory.

This implementation of ISAM uses shared memory; however, the
shared-memory partition has not been established. Contact the system
administrator or the person who installed the product.


-124	ISAM error: no begin work yet.

The ISAM processor has been asked to mark the end of a transaction, but
no transaction has been started. For C-ISAM programs, review the
program logic to make sure that it calls isbegin before it calls
iscommit or isrollback. For SQL products, make sure that you execute
BEGIN WORK before COMMIT WORK or ROLLBACK WORK.


-125	ISAM error: can't use nfs.

The ISAM processor has been asked to open a file that is located on a
disk attached to another computer and that is accessed using the
Network File System (NFS). This action is not supported. Database files
must be on disks that are physically attached to the computer on which
the ISAM processor is running. To use a database on a different
computer, you must install the GBase STAR or GBase NET networking
software. Then an application on this computer can communicate with a
database server that is running on the computer to which the disks are
attached.


-126	ISAM error: bad row id.

The ISAM processor was asked to retrieve a row by its physical location
but could not find a row at that location.

The error occurred due to one or more of the following reasons:

For queries using the dirty read isolation level, the data being queried was in
a temporarily inconsistent state that prevented it from being read. This is
normal behavior for the dirty read isolation level, which allows queries to
access data that is being updated concurrently by other transactions. Resubmit
the query. To prevent this error from occurring, use a higher isolation level.

For C-ISAM programs, if you are using access by record number, review the
number stored in isrecnum; it is invalid. Otherwise, the current index
might be damaged; run the bcheck or secheck utility.

For SQL products, the index has been damaged. Run the oncheck utility to
check and repair the index.


-127	ISAM error: no primary key.

The ISAM processor was called for a function that requires a unique
primary-key index, but no such index exists for this file. For C-ISAM
programs, review the design of the data file; it was created with a
zero-part primary index (that is, for retrieval by record-number
sequence). If that is not the case, the index might be damaged; run the
bcheck or secheck utility. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-128	ISAM error: no logging.

The ISAM processor was called for a function that requires a
transaction log, but none exists for this file. For C-ISAM programs,
review the creation of the data file. Before the program uses functions
such as isbegin, it must set up a log using islogopen. For SQL
products, this database does not support transaction logging. If you
are using the database server, have the database server administrator
enable logging for this database. Otherwise, use the START DATABASE
statement to begin transaction logging. In all cases, start logging
only immediately after the database has been fully backed up.


-129	ISAM error: too many users.

This implementation of ISAM uses shared memory, and it has reached the
maximum number of concurrent users for which the shared memory was
configured. 

The word users can be misleading; the limit is on the number of
concurrent application programs using the database server. It is
possible for one user to start multiple applications at the same time.
For example, when a user starts the GBase 4GL Programmer's
Environment, it opens a session with the database server. When that
user issues a command to compile a 4GL program, the 4GL compiler starts
and also opens a session with the database server. During a compile,
this user has two sessions running.


-130	ISAM error: no such dbspace.

This code indicates one of two problems. The most likely problem is
that this operation specifies a dbspace by name (for example, in the IN
clause of a CREATE TABLE statement or in the DBSPACETEMP environment
variable setting), but that name has not been defined. You can run the
onstat utility with the -d option to see the names of defined dbspaces.
Ask the database server administrator about creating a new dbspace.

If the operation does not explicitly name a dbspace, or if the name is
correct, the problem might be more serious. The error might reflect
corruption of reserved pages in the root dbspace. Use the tbcheck or
oncheck utility with the -cr option to check for this condition.


-131	ISAM error: no free disk space.

Not enough contiguous free disk space is available to complete the
current operation. For C-ISAM programs, if transaction logging is in
use, roll back the current transaction. Make some disk space available,
and run the program again. For SQL products, roll back the current
transaction, if possible. Contact the system administrator about
acquiring more disk space for databases.


-132	ISAM error: rowsize too big.

The limit on a single row is the disk page size that the database
server supports.

Define the table differently, so that each row is shorter. Consider
splitting the table into two or more tables or using more compact data
types.


-133	ISAM error: audit trail exists.

The ISAM processor has been asked to operate on a file in a way that is
incompatible with an audit trail, yet an audit trail exists for the
file. For C-ISAM programs, you cannot call iscluster while an audit
trail exists. First call isaudit with the AUDSTOP mode. For SQL
products, you cannot create a clustered index on a table while it has
an audit trail. First use the DROP AUDIT statement to drop the audit
trail.


-134	ISAM error: no more locks.

The ISAM processor needs to lock a row or an index page, but no locks
are available. The number of locks that an operation requires depends
primarily on the number of rows that a single transaction modifies. You
can reduce the number of locks that an operation needs by doing less in
each transaction or by locking entire tables instead of locking rows.
Depending on the implementation that you are using, the number of locks
that is available is configured in one of three places: the
operating-system kernel, the shared-memory segment, or the database
server. Consult your database server administrator about making more
locks available.


-135	ISAM error: tblspace does not exist.

This error might indicate corruption of control information in the root
dbspace, a serious problem that might require restoring the system from
archive. In the short term, roll back the current transaction, and
terminate the application. Then the database server administrator
should run the tbcheck, oncheck, or onutil utility.


-136	ISAM error: no more extents.

The database server needs to add an extent to a table but cannot
do so. Either not enough disk space is available in the dbspace, or the
table has been given the maximum number of extents that is allowed, or
the maximum number of pages has been reached. The database server
administrator can determine the cause as follows:

    1.  Determine the tblspace number for the table. It is the value in
	the partnum column of the systables table for this table.

    2.  Convert the tblspace number to hexadecimal and extract its
	most-significant 2 digits (the high-order byte). This chunk
	number indicates where the table resides.

    3.  Use the onstat utility -t option to find out disk usage for this
        table. Note particularly the values reported for npages (disk
        pages available), nused (disk pages used), and nextns (number of
        extents).

If nused is less than npages, and nextns is large, the table may have
too many extents. The upper limit of extents per table depends on the
page size of the dbspace it is in, as well as how much space is consumed
by other entries on its tblspace page. An estimate of the maximum
allowed number of extents is the page size in bytes, minus 150 bytes of
overhead, divided by eight. Thus a table in a 2K page size dbspace is
limited to roughly (2,048 - 150) / 8 = 237 extents, but the actual limit
may be lower if other entries on its tblspace page reduce the space
available for extent entries. Larger page sizes allow correspondingly
higher numbers of extents.

If there are too many extents, reallocate the table using fewer, larger
extents, or in a dbspace with a larger page size. To reallocate the
table, unload it to a flat file, then drop the table. Re-create the
table, specifying a first-extent size sufficient to hold all its current
data and a next-extent size between one-fourth and one-sixteenth its
current size. Then reload the data into the table.

If nextns is small or the difference between npages and nused is less
than the size of the next-extent size for the table, not enough disk
space is available in the dbspace where the table resides. Use the
chunk number from step 2 and the ON-Monitor or ON-Monitor Chunks display
to determine the dbspace, then add a new chunk to that dbspace.

If nused is close to 0xFFFFFF (16,777,215), the maximum number of pages
has been reached for the table. Reallocate the table in a dbspace with
a larger page size as described above.


-137	ISAM error: chunk table overflow.

The database system administrator sees this error message. The database
server is configured to handle a certain number of disk chunks. The
limit has been reached, so a chunk could not be added. Increase the
CHUNKS parameter of the ONCONFIG file, and initialize shared memory.


-138	ISAM error: dbspace table overflow.

The database server administrator sees this error message. The database
server is configured to handle a certain number of dbspaces. The limit
has been reached, so a dbspace could not be added. Increase the
DBSPACES parameter of the ONCONFIG file, and initialize shared memory.


-139	ISAM error: logfile table overflow.

The database server administrator sees this error. The database server is
configured to handle a certain number of logical logs. The limit has
been reached, so a log could not be added. Increase the LOGSMAX
parameter of the ONCONFIG file and initialize shared memory.


-140	ISAM error: operation illegal on a DR secondary.

UPDATABLE_SECONDARY disabled:

A DR secondary server is meant for read-only operations. Any kind of write
operation to a nontemporary dbspace is not allowed. For example, you cannot
create a table in a regular dbspace, and you cannot do an insert, update, or
delete operation on a table in a regular dbspace.

Review your application logic and rewrite it to remove any operations that
would write to a nontemporary dbspace.

UPDATABLE_SECONDARY enabled:

A DR secondary server is updatable. Some of the DML/DDL statements are not
supported on an updatable secondary server. For example, create database 
without log is not supported on an updatable secondary server. Also raw 
tables and external tables creatiion are also not supported on 
secondary server.

All secondary servers:

Certain operations on the secondary servers require temporary data to be stored
in temporary dbspaces, such as sorting and view processing. Ensure that temporary
dbspaces are available for such operations.


-141	ISAM error: tblspace table overflow.

The database server is configured to handle a certain number of
open tblspaces (which correspond approximately to tables). This limit
has been reached, so a table that is used in this statement could not
be opened. In the short term, roll back the current transaction and
then re-execute it when fewer concurrent operations are going on. To
prevent recurrence, the database server administrator should configure 
the system to handle more open tblspaces. The TBLSPACES parameter of the
ONCONFIG file sets the limit. The ovrtable count in the
ON-Monitor or ON-Monitor Profile display reflects the number of times
this error occurs.


-142	ISAM error: overflow of tblspace page.

An internal error (probably obsolete) occurred. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-143	ISAM error: deadlock detected.

The database server has detected an impending deadlock between
your request and other, concurrent user requests. Each user request is
waiting for a resource (a row or disk page) that is held by another
request in the chain; if your requested operation went forward, the
chain would be closed and all requests would be deadlocked. In the
short term, treat this error the same as -107 (record is locked). Roll
back the current transaction, and re-execute it after a delay. To
prevent recurrence, review the design of the applications that use the
same tables and execute concurrently. Various design strategies can
minimize the probability of deadlock.

When GBase STAR is active, and your application is using tables in
both this system and another system, deadlock detection is no longer
deterministic but probabilistic, based on the duration of a delay
waiting for resources in another system. The database server administrator 
can set the length of the delay after which deadlock is assumed.


-144	ISAM error: key value locked.

The current operation inserts a row with a certain primary key value or
updates a row with a certain primary key value, but a transaction that
has not yet been committed has deleted that key value from the index.
This error occurs only when the lock mode is set to NOT WAIT. Treat it
the same as error -107 (record is locked). Roll back the current
transaction, and re-execute it after a delay. Then, if the other
transaction was committed, the lock no longer exists. If it was rolled
back, the key exists, and this operation receives a duplicate-key
error.


-145	ISAM error: system does not have disk mirroring.

The database server administrator sees this error. This database server
has not been initialized to support disk mirroring. Before you can add
a mirror chunk, you must reconfigure the database server to support
mirroring.


-146	ISAM error: the other copy of this disk is currently disabled or
non-existent.

The database server administrator sees this error. You must bring the other
chunk of this mirror pair to online status before you can take this
chunk off line.


-147	ISAM error: archive in progress.

The database server administrator sees this error. The action that you have
requested cannot be carried out while an archive is being made. For
example, you cannot add a log or a mirror during archiving. Cancel the
archive or wait until it is complete, and then reissue the command.


-148	ISAM error: dbspace is not empty.

The database server administrator sees this error. You cannot remove a dbspace
until all tables that are in it have been dropped. To find the names of
remaining tables, use the tbcheck or oncheck utility with the -pe
option; its report lists tables by chunk within dbspaces.


-149	ISAM error: GBase daemon is no longer running.

Your application was in communication with the database server, but the
database server is no longer running. Your current transaction will be
rolled back when the database server goes through fast recovery as it
next starts up. Terminate the application, and contact the database
server administrator to find out what happened and when the database
server will be restarted.


-150	The limits of the GBase Demo Version have been exceeded.

You are using a demonstration version of the database server. This
version has severe limits on the number of tables and the size of the
tables that it can manage. The current operation causes it to exceed
one of those limits. Contact your GBase representative about buying
the production version of the software.


-151	ISAM error: Illegal value in varchar length field.

This internal error occurs when the leading byte in a VARCHAR column on
disk indicates a VARCHAR length greater than the column was defined to
hold when the column was created.

If the error recurs, refer to the information on trapping errors in your
Administrator's Guide or Reference. To acquire additional diagnostics,
contact GBase Technical Support with the diagnostic information.


-152	ISAM error: Illegal message type received from remote process.

This internal error should not occur. Note all the details about the
network software in use and the version level of the database servers
in this and the other host system. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-153	ISAM error: not in ISMANULOCK mode.

The ISAM processor has been asked to lock or unlock the current file
(table), but the file was not opened in the appropriate mode. For
C-ISAM programs, review the uses of isopen, and make sure that the
ISMANULOCK flag is passed when the program opens a table for manual
locking. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-154	ISAM error: Lock Timeout Expired.

This network operation has been suspended, awaiting a response from
another database server, for the maximum duration allowed. The local
database server assumes that a distributed deadlock exists and that
this user request is awaiting a resource that was locked by a user in a
different system, which is awaiting a resource that this user owns.
Roll back the current transaction, and retry it after a delay. If this
error occurs frequently, ask the database server administrator to adjust
the length of the deadlock time-out interval.

This code is also returned when an explicit wait time limit expires;
that is, if you have SET LOCK MODE TO WAIT 3, and your request is
queued for more than 3 seconds for a lock, the operation ends with this
ISAM error code.


-155	ISAM error: Primary and Mirror chunks are bad.

The primary chunk (and the mirror chunk, if one exists) are unusable.
Roll back the current transaction and terminate the application.
Contact the database server administrator. New disk chunks must be 
defined, and then the system must be restored.


-157	ISAM error: Interrupted ISAM call.

An interrupt that was detected from client process has terminated the
operation. Restart the operation.


-158	ISAM error: Operation disallowed on SMI pseudo table.

You have attempted an SQL operation that is not supported on System
Monitoring Interface (SMI) pseudo tables. Try another operation.


-159	ISAM error: Collation sequence invalid.

You are attempting to use a collation sequence that is either not
supported or does not match the sequence originally used to create the
ISAM file. Use islanginfo() to determine the language of the ISAM
file.


-160	ISAM error: only one TEXT or BYTE field may be open at any time.

This internal error should not occur. The database server has called
the isbopen function twice in a row. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-161	ISAM error: no TEXT or BYTE field is open.

This internal error should not occur. The database server has called a
TEXT or BYTE function without first calling isbopen. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical
Support.


-162	ISAM error: Storage space does not exist.

The most likely cause of this error is that the current statement
attempts to define a BYTE or TEXT column using the clause IN blobspace,
but no storage space of that name has been defined. However, if the
storage space was correctly spelled and should exist, a reserved page in
the root dbspace might have been corrupted. In that case, the database
server administrator should run tbcheck -cr, oncheck -cr, or onutil to
check the situation. If the statement makes no reference to TEXT or
BYTE columns, possibly the root dbspace is full or corrupted; contact 
the database server administrator for further help.


-163	ISAM error: begin and end page stamps are different.

The database server is reporting evidence of corruption of the
database. Each disk page has time stamps at each end that should be
identical when the page is read from disk. This test of data integrity
has failed, indicating either that a disk page was not fully written to
disk or that one has been partially overwritten on disk or in memory.
In any case, you should roll back the current transaction and terminate
the application. Then notify the database server administrator, who should 
run the tbcheck, oncheck, or onutil utility to get more information about 
the failure.


-164	ISAM error: TEXT or BYTE stamp is incorrect.

This operation has returned an invalid BYTE or TEXT value. Possibly the
data pages have been corrupted. Roll back the current transaction. Have
the database server administrator use tbcheck -D, oncheck -D, or
onutil to get more information about the problem.

If the program is operating with Dirty Read or Committed Read
isolation, this code might indicate that another process or thread has
deleted the BYTE or TEXT value and its pages have been partly
reallocated to an unrelated value. A program using Dirty Read isolation
can read rows that have been deleted if the deletion has not yet been
committed. If the deletion is committed while the program is reading a
BYTE or TEXT value, and if the space allocated to the value is reused
for some other program, this error code might be returned.

When a program uses Committed Read isolation, it does not see a row
that has been marked for deletion; however, no lock is placed on a row
that is not read for update. BYTE or TEXT data is read in a second
step, after the row has been fetched. During this lengthy step, it is
possible for another program to delete the row and commit the deletion
and for the storage space to be reused. To determine if this has occurred,
the program should stop processing the BYTE or TEXT value and reread
the row. If the program can no longer read the other fields in the
row, the row has been deleted. If the program can still read the row,
the storage space is corrupted.


-165	ISAM error: TEXT or BYTE column does not exist.

This internal error should not occur. The database server has called
the isbcreate function for a table column that is not defined as BYTE
or TEXT. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-166	ISAM error: Storage space is full.

This operation attempts to insert or update the value of a BYTE or TEXT
column, but not enough space is available in the storage space in which
that column is stored. Roll back the current transaction, and terminate
the application. Then ask the database server administrator to add a
chunk of disk space to this storage space.

When BYTE and TEXT values are deleted or replaced, the pages that they
occupy in the storage space do not become available for reuse until the
logical log in which that transaction appears has been freed. A logical
log has been freed if the log is backed up to tape and all transactions
in the log are closed.


-167	ISAM error: Storage-space size is not multiple of PAGESIZE.

The database server administrator sees this error. When you define a
storage space, you must specify a page size that is an integral multiple of
the system page size. The system page size is set in the Parameters
screen when the database server is first initialized.


-168	ISAM error: archive is blocking storage space allocation.

Allocation of disk pages in a storage space is frozen while an online
archive is being made. Therefore, pages that contain TEXT or BYTE data
at the time that the archive began are not freed and overwritten by new
pages before they can be written to the archive tape. As soon as all
the used pages in the chunk are archived, allocation in that chunk can
resume. Normal row data can go on changing while the archive is being
made because changed dbspace pages can be written, or rewritten, on the
tape at any point.


-169	ISAM error: Pages for TEXT or BYTE data can't be allocated from
a chunk until chunk add is logged.

When a storage space containing TEXT or BYTE data has been extended by
adding a new chunk, no pages can be allocated until the log record
showing the addition of the chunk has been logged. If this rule were
not enforced, certain anomalies could occur during recovery. You do not
have to wait until the log is full; you can run the tbmode or onmode
utility with the -l option to force a switch to the next log.


-170	ISAM error: illegal use of a storage space for TEXT or BYTE data.

You attempted to add a log to a storage space for TEXT or BYTE data.
You can add logs only to dbspaces.


-171	ISAM error: ISAM file format change detected.

A program that uses a particular locking method or index-node size has
attempted to access an ISAM file that was created using a different
locking method or index-node size.

If you are migrating files from a platform that uses another index-node
size, you must run the bcheck or secheck utility with the -s option
against all of the ISAM files (.dat and .idx) to resize the index
nodes.

For GBase SE, if you are migrating applications between platforms
that use different locking methods, you must set the environment
variable RESETLOCK to convert ISAM files as you access them. You can
access all files for a given database by running UPDATE STATISTICS in
that database, if time permits.

For C-ISAM applications, if you are migrating applications between
platforms that use different locking methods, you must set the
environment variable RESETLOCK to convert C-ISAM files as you access
them.


-172	ISAM error: Unexpected internal error.

You encountered an unanticipated internal event. Consult the online.log
to see if the diagnostics preserved any additional information
regarding this event. If the error recurs, refer to your Administrator's
Guide to acquire additional diagnostics. Contact GBase Technical Support
with the diagnostic information.


-173	ISAM error: An error has occurred during logical log back up.

This generic message indicates that the logical-log backup has failed.
The SQL API also contains useful error text that is associated with
this error.


-174	ISAM error: An error has occurred during archive back up.

This generic message indicates that the archive backup has failed. The
SQL API also contains useful error text that is associated with this
error.


-175	ISAM error: An error has occurred during physical restore.

This generic message indicates that the physical restore has failed.
The SQL API also contains useful error text that is associated with
this error.


-176	ISAM error: An error has occurred during logical restore.

This generic error indicates that the logical restore has failed. The
SQL API also contains useful error text that is associated with this
error.


-178	ISAM error: Database is locked; pending change to logging mode.

A request has been made to change the logging status of a database.
Until a level-0 archive is done for all the storage spaces that the
database uses, access to the database is blocked.


-179	ISAM error: No free disk space for sort.

While performing a sort, the database server did not find enough
contiguous free disk space to create necessary temporary files. You
might have insufficient disk space and need to make more disk space
available before you run the program again. You might have made an
error when you specified the names of temporary dbspaces in DBSPACETEMP
or directory names in PSORT_DBTEMP. Check the spelling of your
temporary space names as specified in DBSPACETEMP. If you specified
multiple temporary dbspaces, check that you used colons (:) or commas
(,) as delimiters.


-181	ISAM error: No Optical Subsystem connection.

The Optical subsystem is not present. This message usually means that
you requested an Optical operation on a database server that
is being used without the Optical subsystem or GBase OnLine/Optical.


-182	ISAM error: Duplicate optical BLOBSpace name.

A storage space for TEXT or BYTE data has been defined with the same
name as an Optical family name.

-186	ISAM error: Cannot open partition. Online create/drop index in progress.

The current operation is trying to open a partition on which a online 
create/drop index is in progress. Wait a short time, and try again. 

-187	ISAM error: User Defined Routine execution failed.

A user-defined routine (UDR) failed to execute properly. Typically, this
occurs when the UDR raises an error.

For more specific information, see the message log.


-188	ISAM error: Cannot add transaction logging on a DR primary with DR on.

Transaction logging cannot be added to a database on the primary
database server of a data replication (DR) pair while DR is in use.
DR has to be turned off for transaction logging to be added.

Adding transaction logging to a database after turning DR off requires
bringing up the DR pair again through a level-0 archive on the primary
database server and its physical restore on the secondary database
server. Restarting DR is necessary to avoid DR failures due to
inconsistencies between the primary and secondary database servers,
caused by the addition of transaction logging.


-190	ISAM error: Transaction table overflow.

No more slots are available in the transaction table. To see this
table, run onstat with the -x option.


-191	ISAM error: No such chunk.

The chunk that was specified to be dropped does not exist.


-192	ISAM error: Cannot drop first chunk.

The first chunk of a storage space is never a candidate to be
dropped. Select a different chunk.


-193	ISAM error: Chunk is busy.

Logical recovery cannot roll forward a chunk add because the chunk
already exists. This error results when the chunk is dropped from a
storage space, or the space is dropped, and the chunk is reused
for another storage space without a level-0 backup performed first.


-194	ISAM error: Chunk not empty.

A chunk is not empty and therefore cannot be dropped.


-196	ISAM error: Operation not allowed in temporary dbspace.

An operation was executed on a temporary dbspace that required
functionality that temporary dbspaces do not provide (most likely
logging). Use a nontemporary dbspace for this operation.


-197	ISAM error: Cannot open a recently appended logged partition for writing.

A level-0 backup is needed before you can write to the target database. 
If this error recurs after a level-0 backup, note all circumstances and contact 
GBase Technical Support.


-198	Cannot alter table. Too many in-place alters of the table in progress.

GBase limits the number of outstanding in-place ALTER TABLE requests
to 255. A 256th in-place alter of a table was requested before the
completion of the first in-place alter. Completion means that all rows
of the table in the first in-place alter have been physically altered.

To recover from this error, you must take one of the following steps:

    *   Wait until the first in-place alter is complete, and issue
	another in-place ALTER TABLE statement.

    *   Change the format of the ALTER TABLE statement to request an
	alter that does not add columns to the end of the table. Such a
	statement will use the older algorithm instead of the in-place
	alter algorithm.

    *   Perform an update of each row in the table to force the
	outstanding alters to complete. Because rows are only modified
	to the latest schema as they are updated, the only way to force
	an in-place alter to complete physically is to update each row
	in the table. To accomplish this result, use a dummy update in
	which a column in the table is set to its own value. The dummy
	update forces the row to be updated to the latest schema in the
	process without actually changing column values. Rows are
	always altered to the latest schema, so a single pass through
	the table that updates all rows will complete all outstanding
	in-place alters.


-199	ISAM error: Dbspace is full.

The dbspace is full. If you are adding a logical log through onparams, there
is not enough space in the dbspace for a log of the size specified. This
error also occurs if you attempt to create a temporary table with log
(the default log setting for temporary tables) when the DBSPACETEMP variable
in ONCONFIG is set to TEMP or NOTCRITICAL. 

To add the logical log, either add one or more chunks to the dbspace or
specify a smaller log size.

To create temporary tables, either set DBSPACETEMP to ALL or create
temporary tables with no log.

-199	Smart Disk Error.

An error has occurred with the Smart Disk system. For more information,
see the accompanying message.


-200	Identifier is too long.

An SQL identifier exceeded the maximum number of characters. In GBase
12.10 or later, the maximum length for identifiers in SQL
statements is 128 characters.

Check that no identifier in the statement is longer than the maximum
length and that no punctuation error, such as a missing space or comma,
combines two identifiers into one.