---
title: 12.Error (-1001)-(-2000)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:42:05.925Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T11:45:00.436Z
---

-1003	Invalid ACCEPTKEY set in the environment.

The key that the ACCEPTKEY environment variable specifies is not
decipherable; either it does not start with F, or it has an invalid
number. Specify a different key.


-1004	The selected ACCEPTKEY has been preassigned for ISQL.

The key that the ACCEPTKEY environment variable specifies is one that
GBase SQL always uses. Set a different value in the environment
variable.


-1005	Your specified termcap file cannot be read.

The TERMCAP environment variable specifies a file that cannot be
opened. Either it does not exist, or your account does not have
operating-system permissions to read it. Check the environment variable
and the file that it names.


-1006	Error number.

The error code that is shown was returned, but the program could not
display the message text for that number, probably because one of the
.iem message files is missing from the directory that the GBASEDBTDIR
environment variable specifies. Look up the number in the finderr utility.
Also consult with the person who installed the GBase software to find
out why the message files are not available.


-1007	Invalid value for the GBASEDBTTERM environment variable.

The only valid settings for the GBASEDBTTERM environment variables are
termcap and terminfo. Setting the variable to termcap (or leaving it
undefined) directs 4GL to use the TERMCAP facility for terminal
control. Setting it to terminfo causes 4GL to use the TERMINFO
facility. Other settings, including variations of the words termcap and
terminfo with capital letters in them, cause this error.


-1008	Termcap entry too long.

The contents of the TERMCAP environment variable, or of the termcap
entry from the termcap database, are read into storage when the
application is initializing. However, the memory buffer that is
allocated to hold the termcap entry is 1,024 bytes, and the entry in
use is longer than that. Use a simpler termcap.


-1009	Bad termcap entry.

The contents of the TERMCAP environment variable, or of the termcap
entry from the termcap database, are read into storage when the
application is initializing. While the program was doing this, it found
improper punctuation in the termcap entry. A colon separator did not
appear where one was expected. Review the specified termcap, and choose
a different one or correct the one that is in use.


-1010	Too many tc= indirections.

In a termcap definition for a terminal, the entry tc= causes the use of
a definition for default values for a different terminal. That terminal
might also have a tc= entry, and so on. However, 4GL cannot follow more
than four tc= commands. The termcap definition in use at this time (as
the TERM or TERMCAP environment variable specifies) exceeds the limit.
Write or find a termcap definition that is more self contained.


-1101	Variable address is NULL.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1102	Field name not found in form.

A field name listed in an INPUT, INPUT ARRAY, CONSTRUCT, SCROLL or
DISPLAY statement does not appear in the form specification of the
screen form that is currently displayed. Review the program logic to
ensure that the intended window is current, the intended form is
displayed in it, and all the field names in the statement are spelled
correctly.

A common problem is the attempted use of field tags instead of field
names. The field tag is the name that is written in the screen picture
and that appears at the left side of the ATTRIBUTES statement for that
field. It is not the name of the field for input or display purposes.
The field name is the column name with which it is associated. This
name appears to the right of the equal sign in the ATTRIBUTES section.

   ATTRIBUTES

   f000 = customer.customer_num,color=red;

The name of the field in the preceding example is customer_num. Use of
the tag f000 in an INPUT statement will produce an error.


-1103	This value is not among the valid possibilities.

A list or range of acceptable values has been established for this
column (via an INCLUDE attribute in the form-specification file). You
must enter a value within the acceptable range.

For 4GL programs, -1301 replaces this error.


-1104	The two entries were not the same. Try again.

To guard against typographical errors, this field has been designated
VERIFY (in the form specification file). The value in this field must
be entered twice, identically. Carefully reenter the data.
Alternatively, you can cancel the form entry with the Interrupt key
(usually CTRL-C, but see the operating instructions that the program
author supplied).

For 4GL programs, -1302 replaces this error.


-1105	You cannot use this editing feature because a picture exists.

This field is defined (in the form specification file) with a PICTURE
attribute to specify its format. You cannot use certain editing keys
(for example, CTRL-A, CTRL-D, and CTRL-X) while you are editing such a
field. Use only printable characters and the backspace to enter the
value.

For 4GL programs, -1303 replaces this error.


-1106	Error in field.

You entered a value in this field that cannot be stored in the program
variable that is meant to receive it. For example, possibly you entered
a decimal number when the application provided only an integer
variable, or you entered a character string that is longer than the
application expected. Note all the circumstances and then discuss the
problem with the person who wrote the application program.

For 4GL programs, -1304 replaces this error.


-1107	Field subscript out of bounds.

The subscript of a screen array in an INPUT, DISPLAY, or CONSTRUCT
statement is either less than 1 or greater than the number of fields in
the array. Review the program source in conjunction with the form
specification to see where the error lies.


-1108	Record not in form.

The screen record that is named in an INPUT ARRAY or DISPLAY ARRAY
statement does not appear in the screen form that is now displayed.
Review the program source in conjunction with the form specification to
see if the screen record names match.


-1109	List and record field counts differ.

The number of program variables does not agree with the number of
screen fields in a CONSTRUCT, INPUT, INPUT ARRAY, DISPLAY, or DISPLAY
ARRAY statement. Review the statement in conjunction with the form
specification to see where the error lies. Common problems include a
change in the definition of a screen record that is not reflected in
every statement that uses the record, and a change in a program record
that is not reflected in the form design.


-1110	Form file not found.

The form file that is specified in an OPEN FORM statement was not
found. Inspect the "form-file" parameter of the statement. It should
not include the file suffix.frm. However, if the form is not in the
current directory, it should include a complete path to the file.


-1111	Field table offset out of bounds.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1112	A form is incompatible with the current 4GL version. Rebuild your form.

The form file that is specified in an OPEN FORM statement is not
acceptable. Possibly it was corrupted in some way, or it was compiled
with a version of the Form Compiler that is not compatible with the
version of the 4GL compiler that compiled this program. Use a current
version of the Form Compiler to recompile the form specification.


-1113	Memory allocation error.

A BYTE or TEXT variable has been located in memory, and a value has
been assigned to the variable. However, not enough data memory is
available to hold the variable. Review the program, and locate the
large value in a file instead.

For 4GL programs, -1319 replaces this error.


-1114	No form has been displayed.

The current statement requires the use of a screen form. For example,
DISPLAY...TO or an INPUT statement must use the fields of a form.
However, the DISPLAY FORM statement has not been executed since the
current window was opened. Review the program logic to ensure that it
opens and displays a form before it tries to use a form.


-1115	Numeric value too long for field.

4GL tried to format a numeric value for display in a form field, but
the resulting string was too long for the field. Review the program
logic to find out what large numeric value is being assigned.

For 4GL programs that were compiled at Version 5.0 and later or that
are running under 4GL/GX, this error cannot occur.


-1116	Default value from form field cannot be converted to
input variable type.

This statement takes input from a form field whose default value (which
the ATTRIBUTES keyword DEFAULT specifies in the form) is not compatible
with the program variable that receives it. Review all the program
variables that are named in this statement, and compare them to the
definitions of the fields in the form specification. Check that each
variable corresponds to the intended field and has a compatible data
type.


-1117	Cannot convert date value to string.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1119	NEXT FIELD name not found in form.

This statement (INPUT or INPUT ARRAY) contains a NEXT FIELD clause that
names a field that is not defined in the form. Perhaps the form has
been changed, but the program has not. Also see the note for error
message -1102.

For 4GL programs, -1371 replaces this error.


-1120	Message file not found.

The message file that is specified in the HELP FILE clause of the most
recent OPTIONS statement does not exist. Find that OPTIONS statement in
the program, and review the "help-file" parameter. It must contain the
complete filename of the prepared message file. If the file is not in
the current directory, it must have a full pathname. Message files are
prepared with the mkmessage utility.

For 4GL programs, -1227 replaces this error.


-1121	Message number not found in message file.

A message number that is given in the HELP clause of an INPUT, PROMPT,
or MENU statement cannot be found in the current message file. The
most- recently executed OPTIONS HELP FILE statement establishes the
message file. Find that statement in the program, and verify that the
message file is the one that you intended. Then review the source of
that message file, and ensure that it contains definitions for all the
message numbers that are used in the program. Recompile the message
file with the mkmessage utility, and try the program again.

For 4GL programs, -1228 replaces this error.


-1122	Incompatible message file.

The message file that is named in the most-recently executed OPTIONS
HELP FILE statement was not acceptable. Possibly it has been corrupted
in some way. Possibly the OPTIONS statement named the message source
file instead of the compiled message file (the output of mkmessage).
Possibly the file was compiled with an outdated version of the
mkmessage utility. Recompile the message file with the current version
of the utility, and review the program source to make sure that it
names the correct file.

For 4GL programs, -1229 replaces this error.


-1123	No help file specified.

This INPUT, PROMPT, or MENU statement contains a HELP help-number
clause; however, no message file has been established. The OPTIONS HELP
FILE statement establishes the message file, but none has yet been
executed. Review the program logic, and modify it to execute an
OPTIONS statement with a HELP FILE clause before it is needed.

For 4GL programs, -1343 replaces this error.


-1124	This field requires an entered value.

The cursor is in a form field that has been designated REQUIRED. You
must enter some value before the cursor can move on to another field.
However, to enter a null value, type any printable character and then
backspace. Alternatively, you can cancel the form entry with the
Interrupt key (usually CTRL-C, but see the operating instructions that
the program author supplied).

For 4GL programs, -1305 replaces this error.


-1125	Type again for verification.

The cursor is in a form field that has been designated VERIFY. You must
enter the value twice, identically, before the cursor can move on to
another field. This requirement helps to ensure that no typographical
errors occur during data entry. Alternatively, you can cancel form
entry with the Interrupt key (usually CTRL-C, but see the operating
instructions that the program author supplied).

For 4GL programs, -1306 replaces this error.


-1126	Cannot insert another row - the input array is full.

You are entering data into an array of records that is represented in
the program by an array of program variables. That array is now full;
no place is available to store another record. Press the ACCEPT key
(usually ESCAPE, but see the operating instructions that the program
author supplied) to process the records that you have entered.

For 4GL programs, -1307 replaces this error.


-1127	Cannot delete row - it has no data.

You pressed the Delete Row function key (usually F2, but see the
operating instructions that the program author supplied) in an empty
row. Nothing was deleted.

For 4GL programs, -1308 replaces this error.


-1128	There are no more rows in the direction you are going.

You are attempting to scroll an array of records farther than it can
go, either scrolling up at the top or scrolling down at the bottom of
the array. Further attempts will have the same result.

For 4GL programs, -1309 replaces this error.


-1129	Field in BEFORE/AFTER clause not found in form.

This statement includes a BEFORE FIELD clause or an AFTER FIELD clause
that names a field that is not defined in the form that is currently
displayed. Review the program to ensure that the intended form was
displayed, and review this statement against the form specification to
ensure that existing fields are named. Also see the note on field names
for error message -1102.


-1130	You cannot have multiple BEFORE clauses for the same field.

This statement includes at least two BEFORE FIELD clauses that name the
same form field. Only one is supported. Find all the BEFORE FIELD
clauses relate to one field, and combine them into a single clause.


-1131	You cannot have multiple AFTER clauses for the same field.

This statement includes at least two AFTER FIELD clauses that name the
same form field. Only one is supported. Find all the AFTER FIELD
clauses that relate to one field, and combine them into a single
clause.


-1132	The destination string of the CONSTRUCT statement is not large enough.

The outcome of a CONSTRUCT statement is a character string that
contains all the conditions that the user entered. This string is in a
form suitable for use as the WHERE clause of a SELECT statement. In
this CONSTRUCT statement, the result string is longer than the program
variable that is specified to receive it. As a general rule, the length
of the variable must allow enough room for the names of all the screen
fields that are used in the statement, plus room for the field contents
and for punctuation and relational operators. Review the statement,
and revise the definition of the receiving variable accordingly.


-1133	The NEXT OPTION name is not in the menu.

This MENU statement contains a NEXT OPTION clause that names a
menu-option that is not defined in the statement. The string that
follows NEXT OPTION must be identical to one that follows a COMMAND
clause in the same MENU statement. Review the statement to ensure that
these clauses agree with each other.


-1134	There is no termcap entry for this function key.

The key that is specified in one clause of this OPTIONS statement is
not defined in the termcap file (or the terminfo file if you are using
it instead). Review the HELP KEY, INSERT KEY, NEXT KEY, PREVIOUS KEY,
and DELETE KEY clauses. Compare the function keys that they specify to
the current termcap definition.


-1135	The row or column number in DISPLAY AT exceeds the limits of your
terminal.

Review the DISPLAY...AT statement. Make sure that the position numbers
are in the correct order (row number first, then column) and that they
make sense for the current terminal or window. The dimensions of the
terminal for UNIX systems are determined when the program starts by
reading termcap information (or terminfo information, depending on the
value of the GBASEDBTTERM environment variable). A screen location that
is correct for one user of the program might not be correct for all. On
DOS systems, the window size is always 24 lines by 80 characters.


-1136	Window is too large to fit on the screen.

The window dimensions that are specified in the WITH clause of this
OPEN WINDOW statement conflict with the size of the screen. The entire
window cannot be displayed, so the statement is not executed. If the
WITH clause specifies dimensions, you can use smaller ones; if it
specifies a form, the SCREEN statement in the form specification sets
the dimensions. Alternatively, you might be able to get the window
into the screen by changing the origin that is provided in the AT
clause. The dimensions of the terminal for UNIX systems are determined
when the program starts by reading termcap information (or terminfo
information, depending on the value of the GBASEDBTTERM environment
variable). Screen dimensions that are correct for one user of the
program might not be correct for all. On DOS systems, the window size
is always 24 lines by 80 characters.


-1137	Cannot open window.

The cause of the problem is a lack of data memory. Change the logic of
the program to keep fewer windows open concurrently, or use fewer
global variables.

For 4GL programs, -1319 replaces this error.


-1138	Border does not fit on screen. Window is too large.

The window that this OPEN WINDOW statement describes cannot be opened
because its border does not fit on the screen. Despite the wording of
the message, the window is not necessarily too large for the screen.
However, one or more of its borders (top, bottom, left, or right)
cannot be drawn. The position of the window is set in the OPEN WINDOWS
statement; check that it starts no higher than row 2 and no farther
left than column 2 (or else remove the BORDER attribute). The OPEN
WINDOW statement or the form that it names sets the size of the
window.

The dimensions of the terminal for UNIX systems are determined when the
program starts by reading termcap information (or terminfo information,
depending on the value of the GBASEDBTTERM environment variable). If
the termcap entry includes sg#1 (terminfo: xmc#1), 4GL reserves an
additional column to the left and right of a bordered window. On DOS
systems, the window size is always 24 lines by 80 characters.


-1139	Form line cannot be set using LAST keyword.

This OPTIONS statement includes a FORM LINE clause that uses LAST. You
can specify an absolute form line or one relative to FIRST, but you
cannot specify it relative to LAST.


-1140	NEXT OPTION is a hidden option.

The option that is named in this NEXT OPTION statement has previously
been hidden with the HIDE OPTION statement. Because it is not visible
to the user, it cannot be highlighted as the next choice.


-1141	Cannot close window with active INPUT, DISPLAY ARRAY, or MENU statement.

This CLOSE WINDOW statement cannot be executed because an input
operation is still active in that window. The CLOSE WINDOW statement
must have been contained in, or called from within, the input statement
itself. Review the program logic, and revise it so that the statement
completes before the window is closed.


-1142	Window is too small to display this form.

The window dimensions of the current window are too small to contain
the form that is to be displayed. Review the window dimensions, and
compare them to all forms that will be displayed in that window. The
dimensions of the form are established in the form-specification file
with the SCREEN statement. The dimensions of the window are set during
the OPEN WINDOW statement, either directly or by opening the window
WITH a particular form.


-1143	Window is already open.

This OPEN WINDOW statement names a window that is already open. Review
the program logic, and see whether it should contain a CLOSE WINDOW
statement, or whether it should simply use a CURRENT WINDOW statement
to bring the open window to the top.


-1144	Cannot open window. Window origin is not on the screen.

The row and column position in the AT clause of this OPEN WINDOW
statement points off the physical screen. The statement is not
executed. Review the program, and check that the numbers are in the
correct order (first row, then column). The dimensions of the terminal
are determined when the program starts by reading termcap information
(or terminfo information, depending on the value of the GBASEDBTTERM
environment variable), so a window origin that is correct for some
users might not be correct for all.


-1145	Cannot open ERROR window.

4GL attempted to open a one-line, 80-column window in which to display
an error message but was not able to do so. Possible causes include a
shortage of data memory and internal errors.

For 4GL programs, -1319 replaces this error.


-1146	PROMPT message is too long to fit in the window.

Although 4GL truncates the output of MESSAGE and COMMENT to fit the
window dimensions, it does not do so for PROMPT and the user's
response. Reduce the length of the prompt string, or make the window
larger. You could display most of the prompting text with DISPLAY and
then prompt with a single space or colon.


-1147	You cannot CLOSE, CLEAR or make CURRENT an unopened window.

This CLOSE WINDOW, CLEAR WINDOW, or CURRENT WINDOW statement names a
window that has not been opened or has been closed. Review the program
logic to ensure that it does not refer to an unopened window except to
open it.


-1148	Size of a window may not be negative.

The AT clause of this OPEN WINDOW statement uses a negative number. The
row and column sizes must be positive integers. Revise the statement.


-1149	An unknown code has been detected in the form.

The screen form that is currently displayed is unacceptable in some
way. Possibly it has been corrupted; possibly it was compiled by an
obsolete version of form4gl. Recompile the form. If the problem recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1150	Window is too small to display this menu.

Review the OPEN WINDOW statement for the current window in conjunction
with this MENU statement. The window must be at least two rows tall,
and it must be wide enough to display the menu title, the longest
option name, two sets of three-dot ellipses, and six spaces. Revise the
program to make the window larger or to give the menu a shorter name
and shorter options.


-1151	GBase 4GL Run Time Facility.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1152	Enter value in range.

This error message is a version of message -1103/-1301, which is used
by GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small
screens. See message -1103.


-1153	Bad verify -- reenter.

This message is a version of message -1104/-1302, which is used by
GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small screens.
See message -1104.


-1154	Cannot use edit key.

This message is a version of message -1105/-1303, which is used by
GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small screens.
See message -1105.


-1155	Enter value in field.

This message is a version of message -1124/-1305, which is used by
GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small screens.
See message -1124.


-1156	Enter value again.

This message is a version of message -1125/-1306, which is used by
GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small screens.
See message -1125.


-1157	No more rows.

This message is a version of message -1127/-1309, which is used by
GBase 4GL/RF with handheld terminals that have very small screens.
See message -1127.


-1158	FMP has run out of memory.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1159	FMP has exceeded its number of concurrent INPUT statements.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1160	FMP has exceeded its number of concurrent DISPLAY ARRAY statements.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1161	FMP currently is not in the midst of an INPUT statement.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1162	FMP has exceeded the number of concurrently open forms.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1163	The FMP version number is incompatible with the 4GL program. Relink
the 4GL program and run again.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1164	A NEXT FIELD specified in the instructions section of the form is
not used within the current input statement.

The current form field has a NEXT FIELD specification (in the
INSTRUCTIONS section of the form). However, the specified next field is
not named in the current INPUT statement, so the cursor cannot move to
that field.


-1165	This statement is not allowed for the FMP.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1166	An illegal code has been received from the FMP.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1167	An unknown form name has been received by the FMP.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1168	Command does not appear in the menu.

The SHOW OPTION, HIDE OPTION, or NEXT OPTION statement cannot refer to
an option (command) that does not exist. Check the spelling of the name
of the option.


-1170	The type of your terminal is unknown to the system.

Check the setting of your TERM environment variable and the setting of
your TERMCAP or TERMINFO environment variable. Check with your system
administrator if you need help with this action.


-1171	A disallowed data type has been encountered by the FMP.

FMP refers to GBase 4GL/RF. See the installation documentation for
your system.


-1176	A COMMAND KEY value occurs elsewhere in the current menu.

In the indicated MENU statement, you defined a key value in more than
one COMMAND KEY keylist or both in a COMMAND KEY keylist and as the
default activation key for one or more nonhidden COMMAND clauses (for
example, that key value is also the first character of one or more
menu-option strings). This condition is illegal because MENU has no way
to resolve what to do if the given keystroke occurs.

A given key might appear as the default activation key for more than
one COMMAND (without the KEY clause) because the user will be prompted
for subsequent keystrokes until a unique string is obtained. This
action is not possible with COMMAND KEY because only one keystroke is
compared.

If a COMMAND is currently hidden (by using the HIDE OPTION keywords),
its default activation key is ignored and does not trigger this
particular error condition.

-1200	Number is too large for a DECIMAL data type.

The float DECIMAL data type accommodates numbers greater than or equal to
1.000E-130 and less than 1.000E+126 in absolute value. The precision
(number of significant digits) varies from 1 to 32; however, the source
of this error is not the length of the number but its magnitude.


-1201	Number is too small for a DECIMAL data type.

The DECIMAL data type accommodates numbers greater than or equal to
1.000E-130 and less than 1.000E+126 in absolute value. The precision (number
of significant digits) varies from 1 to 32; however, the source of this
error is not the length of the number but its magnitude.


-1202	An attempt was made to divide by zero.

Zero cannot be a divisor. In some cases, this error arises because the
divisor is a character value that does not convert properly to
numeric.


-1203	Values used in a MATCH must both be type CHARACTER.

The MATCHES relationship applies only to character data; both of its
operands must be CHAR or VARCHAR columns or variables, or literal
character strings. If you need to apply a regular-expression pattern
match to a numeric value, you can do so in 4GL. Assign the numeric
value to a CHAR variable, and test that variable.


-1204	Invalid year in date.

The year in a DATE value or literal is invalid. For example, the
number 0000 is not acceptable as the year.


-1205	Invalid month in date.

The month in a DATE value or literal must be a one- or two-digit number
from 1 to 12.


-1206	Invalid day in date.

The day number in a DATE value or literal must a one- or two-digit number
from 1 to 28 (or 29 in a leap year), 30, or 31, depending on the month that
accompanies it.


-1207	Converted value does not fit into the allotted space.

A noncharacter value, after conversion to a character string, is too
long to fit in the buffer that was provided.

If the conversion was automatic, change the program to provide a larger
host variable to receive the string.

If this action was an explicit call to conversion function, pass a
larger buffer.


-1208	There is no conversion from non-character values to character values.

If you are using a database server prior to Version 4.0, no automatic
conversion from numeric values to character values occurs in SQL
statements such as INSERT and UPDATE. Check that the specified value
for each column agrees with the data type of that column. If you use a
Version 4.0 or later database server, this message should not appear.


-1209	Without any delimiters, this date must contain exactly 6 or 8 digits.

When a literal date value is entered in numeric form, not enclosed in
quotes to make it a character string, it must be entered as a number of
precisely 6 digits (representing mmddyy) or 8 digits (representing
mmddyyyy). Because no punctuation is present, a date with any other
number of digits is ambiguous; it cannot be divided into month, day,
and year with certainty.


-1210	Date could not be converted to month/day/year format.

The DATE type is compatible with the INTEGER type, but not all integer
values are valid dates. This error arises in attempts to convert to
character from a date whose numeric value is less than -693,594 or
greater than 2,958,464. Numbers that are outside this range have no
representation as dates.

You may also see this message if you try to use the VARIANCE(),
STDEV() or other aggregation functions on an inappropriate data type, such as DATE.


-1211	Out of memory.

4GL cannot allocate memory for a small, temporary work area that is
used for processing an expression. To avoid this error, simplify the
program in almost any way to release enough space


-1212	Date conversion format must contain a month, day, and year component.

When a date value is converted between internal binary format and
display or entry format, a pattern directs the conversion. When
conversion is done automatically, the pattern comes from the
environment variable DBDATE. When it is done with an explicit call to
the rfmtdate(), rdefmtdate(), or USING functions, a pattern string is
passed as a parameter. In any case, the pattern string (the format of
the message) must include letters that show the location of the three
parts of the date: 2 or 3 letters d; 2 or 3 letters m; and either 2 or 4
letters y.


-1213	A character to numeric conversion process failed.

A character value is being converted to numeric form for storage in a
numeric column or variable. However, the character string cannot be
interpreted as a number. It contains some characters other than white
space, digits, a sign, a decimal, or the letter e; or the parts are in
the wrong order, so the number cannot be deciphered.

If you are using NLS, the decimal character or thousands separator
might be wrong for your locale.


-1214	Value too large to fit in a SMALLINT.

The SMALLINT data type can accept numbers with absolute values from 0
through 32,767 (plus or minus (2 to the 15th power) - 1). To store
numbers that are outside this range, redefine the column or variable to
use INTEGER or DECIMAL type. (The value -32,768 is a 16-bit value but
is not acceptable; it indicates a null value in 4GL.)


-1215	Value too large to fit in an INTEGER.

The INTEGER or SERIAL data type can accept numbers with absolute values
from 0 through 2,147,483,647 (plus or minus (2 to the 31st power) - 1).

To store numbers that are outside this range, redefine the column or
variable to use the BIGINT or BIGSERIAL or INT8 or SERIAL8 data type 
or the DECIMAL data type.  For more information on valid ranges of 
data types, see the GBase Guide to SQL: Reference.


-1216	Illegal exponent.

The exponent of a numeric literal cannot exceed 32,767. In fact, none
of the available data types can accommodate an exponent that large.
However, the exponent itself triggers this message before checking the
destination of the number. Check the statement for missing or misplaced
punctuation that might have caused two numbers to run together.


-1217	The format string is too large.

The pattern string that is used to format a date (either the DBDATE
environment variable or the pattern that is passed to rfmtdate() or the
USING function) is too long. The limit is 80 bytes.


-1218	String to date conversion error.

The input to the rstrdate() function does not properly represent a
date: either it has nondigits where digits are expected, an unexpected
delimiter, or numbers that are too large or are inconsistent.


-1219	Numeric value from database is too large for COBOL data item.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1220	Numeric value from database is too small for COBOL data item.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1221	Cannot convert null data types.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1222	Value will not fit in a SMALLFLOAT.

The SMALLFLOAT data type can accept numbers within a certain range of
exponents. The maximum and minimum exponent values are different
depending on the host operating system (the range is the same as that
supported by the C compiler for float values in this system). In the
current statement, a constant number is being converted for storage in
a FLOAT variable or column, and the exponent is too large or too
small.


-1223	Value will not fit in a FLOAT.

The FLOAT data type can accept numbers within a certain range of
exponents. The maximum and minimum exponent values are different
depending on the host operating system (the range is the same as that
supported by the C compiler for double values in this host system). In
the current statement, a constant number is being converted for storage
in a FLOAT variable or column, and the exponent is too large or too
small.


-1224	Invalid decimal number.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1225	Column does not admit a NULL value.

This statement attempted to store a null value in a column that has
been defined as not allowing nulls. Review the definition of the table,
and revise the statement so that it supplies values for all required
columns.


-1226	Decimal or money value exceeds maximum precision.

The client is attempting to convert a number into a DECIMAL or MONEY variable.
However, the number has more digits to the left of the decimal
point than the declaration of the variable allows. Revise the program to
assign the converted number to a variable with an appropriate precision. 


-1227	Message file not found.

4GL cannot locate a file of message texts. The file should have a
suffix of .iem and be in the product directory, $GBASEDBTDIR/msg.
Reinstall such files from the distribution materials. If you have
started to modify the user-message file, 4glusr.msg, check that its
compiled form has been replaced in the correct directory.


-1228	Message number not found in message file.

4GL cannot find a message number that should appear in a message file
that was installed with the product. Reinstall all files of type .iem
from the distribution materials. If you have modified the contents of
the file, 4glusr.msg, review all deletions that you might have made,
and recompile that file.


-1229	Incompatible message file.

4GL is trying to look up a message text in a message file, but the file
contents do not match the current version of the product. Possibly the
file is corrupt; possibly a message file from a prior version is present.
The file has a suffix of .iem and exists in the etc subdirectory of the
path that the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable identifies. Reinstall such
files from the distribution materials. If you have started to modify the
user-message file, 4glusr.msg, make sure that you are recompiling it with
a current version of the mkmessage utility.


-1230	Bad message file name formulation.

An invalid filename has been supplied for the message file that is used
for displaying error messages such as the ones in this book, so the
file cannot be opened. Check the value of the DBLANG environment
variable, if one is specified.


-1231	Cannot seek within message file.

The application is trying to look up a message text in a message file
but receives an error code when it tries to position within the file.
This situation indicates some problem with the file itself; possibly it
has been corrupted or truncated. Reinstall all files of type .iem from
the distribution materials. If you have modified the user-message file,
4glusr.msg, recompile it as well.


-1232	Message buffer too small.

4GL is reading a message text from a compiled message file but cannot
resize the buffer to be large enough to hold the complete message. This
situation might indicate a critical shortage of data space, but more
probably it indicates a corrupted or invalid message file. Reinstall
all files of type .iem from the distribution materials. If you have
modified the user-message file, 4glusr.msg, recompile it as well.


-1233	Invalid hour, minute, or second.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1234	Function may be applied only to datetime data types.

This message is not believed to be in use in any current product. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1235	Character host variable is too short for the data.

In an ESQL/C program, the program has attempted to fetch a column value
into a host variable that is not large enough. Use the DESCRIBE command
to find out the sizes of column values.

If this error arises in a 4GL program, note all circumstances
and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1236	Bad era date.

The era name or the era offset that is given in the input string is
invalid or has not been entered in the required format. Check that the
era name and offset are valid and in the proper order in the input
string. Check the format against the value of DBTIME, DBDATE, or the
format string passed to the SQL API function, whichever is
appropriate.


-1237	Bad era name.

The date format requires an era name, but no name that matches the era
names in the GLS locale could be found in the input string. Check that
you are using the correct locale and that you entered the era name
correctly.


-1238	Bad era initialization.

Contact GBase Technical Support regarding this internal error.


-1239	Era year overflow.

The era offset that is given is not within the range for the era that
is specified. Check that the era offset is within the valid range for
the era that is specified.


-1250	Unable to create pipes.

Your application is using an operating-system facility called a pipe to
initialize its communication with the database server. The operating
system returned an unexpected error. Look for operating-system error
messages that might give more information.


-1251	Unable to create shared memory. semget failed.

Your application is initializing its communication with the database
server, which is a version that uses shared memory for communications.
An unexpected error has occurred with an operating-system function,
semget. Look for operating-system messages that might give more
information. Consult with the person who installed the GBase
shared-memory product.


-1252	Unable to create shared memory. shmget failed.

Your application is initializing its communication with the database
server, which is a version that uses shared memory for communications.
An unexpected error has occurred with an operating-system function,
shmget. Look for operating-system messages that might give more
information. Consult with the person who installed the GBase
shared-memory product.


-1254	Unable to connect to remote host.

The program is attempting to open a database that a database server in
another system manages, but it could not open a network connection to
the other system. Check the site name that the DATABASE or CREATE
DATABASE statement specifies. If it is as you intended, look for other
error messages from the networking component or the operating system.
Contact the operator of the other system to verify that it is active
and accepting network connections.


-1257	Operating system cannot fork process for back end.

Back end refers to the database server. If this is an internal error, look
for operating-system messages that might give more detail. In DOS
systems, you probably are out of memory; exit to the operating-system
command line, and resubmit your program. After you verify that no
system limit or local problem exists, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1258	Cannot attach to shared memory used to communicate with back end.

Back end refers to the database server. In this internal error, look
for operating-system messages that might give more detail. After you
verify that no system limit or local problem exists, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1260	It is not possible to convert between the specified types.

The database server attempts any data conversion that makes sense. Some
conversions, however, are not supported, such as INTERVAL to DATE, DATETIME
to MONEY, CHAR to LIST, or CHAR to SET. Possibly you referenced the wrong
variable or column. Check that you have specified the data types that you
intended and that literal representations of data values are correctly
formatted.


-1261	Too many digits in the first field of datetime or interval.

The first field of a DATETIME literal must contain either 1 or 2 digits
(if it is not a YEAR) or else 2 or 4 digits (if it is a YEAR). The
first field of an INTERVAL literal represents a count of units and can
have up to 9 digits, depending on the precision that is specified in
its qualifier. Review the DATETIME and INTERVAL literals in this
statement, and correct them.


-1262	Non-numeric character in datetime or interval.

The form of a DATETIME or INTERVAL literal is very limited. One can
contain only decimal digits and the allowed delimiters: the hyphen
between year, month, and day numbers; the space between day and hour;
the colon between hour, minute, and second; and the decimal point
between second and fraction. Any other characters, or these characters
in the wrong order, produce an error.


-1263	A field in a datetime or interval is out of range, incorrect, or missing.

Inspect the DATE, DATETIME, and INTERVAL literals in this statement;
at least one of them contains at least one incorrect field or is missing
at least one field.

In a DATE or DATETIME literal, the year might be zero, the month might be other
than 1 to 12, or the day might be other than 1 to 31 or inappropriate for the
month. Also in a DATETIME literal, the hour might be other than 0 to 23, the
minute or second might be other than 0 to 59, or the fraction might have too
many digits for the specified precision.

In an INTERVAL literal, the constraints are the same except that the
first field is a count and can have as many digits as the qualifier
specifies.


-1264	Extra characters at the end of a datetime or interval.

Only spaces can follow a DATETIME or INTERVAL literal. Inspect this
statement for missing or incorrect punctuation.


-1265	Overflow occurred on a datetime or interval operation.

Both DATETIME and INTERVAL values are stored internally as DECIMAL
values. In this statement, an arithmetic operation that uses DATETIME
and/or INTERVAL values has caused an arithmetic overflow. This
situation should not occur. Check the precision that is specified for
an INTERVAL value. If the INTERVAL value that you want to enter is
greater than the default number of digits that are allowed for that
field, you must explicitly identify the number of significant digits in
your definition. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1266	Intervals or Datetimes are incompatible for the operation.

Some arithmetic combinations of DATETIME, INTERVAL, and numeric values
are meaningless and are not allowed. Review the arithmetic expressions
in this statement. Possibly one of them is using a DATETIME or INTERVAL
column or variable by mistake. If not, see your SQL reference material
for the valid use of these data types.


-1267	The result of a datetime computation is out of range.

In this statement, a DATETIME computation produced a value that cannot be
stored. This situation can occur, for example, if a large interval is added
to a DATETIME value. This error can also occur if the resultant date does
not exist, such as Feb 29, 1999.

Review the expressions in the statement and see if you can change the
sequence of operations to avoid the overflow.


-1268	Invalid datetime or interval qualifier.

This statement contains a DATETIME or INTERVAL qualifier that is not
acceptable. These qualifiers can contain only the words YEAR, MONTH,
DAY, HOUR, MINUTE, SECOND, FRACTION, and TO. A number from 1 to 5 in
parentheses can follow FRACTION. Inspect the statement for missing
punctuation and misspelled words. A common error is adding an s, as in
MINUTES.


-1269	Locator conversion error.

This message was issued because a function that requires an argument
that is a locator (a reference to a BYTE or TEXT value) received
something other than a valid locator (such as a NULL parameter, or an
argument of any other data type).

Review the program logic to make sure the arguments are correct.


-1270	Interval literal may not have embedded minus sign.

You can use a minus sign as an arithmetic operator between an INTERVAL
literal and other values, and you can use a minus sign as a prefix to
an INTERVAL literal to indicate it is a negative quantity. However, you
cannot embed a minus sign among the fields of the literal. If you did
not intend to do this, inspect the statement for missing or misplaced
punctuation.


-1271	Missing decimal point in datetime or interval fraction.

A decimal point is expected to appear in a DATETIME or INTERVAL literal
when the qualifier of the literal contains the word FRACTION. This
statement has such a literal, but no decimal point was found. Inspect
the literal qualifiers for missing or misplaced punctuation.


-1272	No input buffer has been specified.

You have not specified an input string for this function, so the
conversion cannot proceed. Set the input-string argument, and call the
function again. (This function might require that you define
formatting directives with the DBTIME environment variable.)


-1273	Output buffer is NULL or too small to hold the result.

This error is returned when the function is called and the address
space for the output buffer is null or smaller than the format-string
length. Redefine the size of the address, and execute the function
again. (This function might require that you define formatting
directives with the DBTIME environment variable.)


-1274	No output buffer has been specified.

The output buffer length is zero, or the buffer pointer is a null
pointer. Database servers after Version 5.01 do not use this error
message.


-1275	Invalid field width or precision in datetime or interval format string.

The field width or precision in DATETIME or INTERVAL format
specification must make sense. The field width must be a decimal
number, with a leading zero or minus ( - ) sign. If a precision
specification is present, it must also be decimal, separated from the
field-width specification by a period.


-1276	Format conversion character not supported.

A format conversion character in the format string is not valid. Check
the string against the table of format conversion directives for
DATETIME and INTERVAL format conversion functions in the manual for
your embedded language product. See also the discussion of the DBTIME
environment variable in the GBase Guide to SQL:
Reference.


-1277	Input does not match format specification.

Check that the ASCII string that contains a DATETIME or INTERVAL value
conforms to the format string. For example, a percent character in a
DATETIME or INTERVAL ASCII string must have a matching "%%" sequence in the
format string. See also the discussion of the DBTIME environment variable in
the GBase Guide to SQL: Reference.

If you are using the ROUND() or TRUNC() build-in functions on DATE or DATETIME
data types, note that the list of supported values for the second parameter
is "YEAR", "MONTH", "DAY", "DD", "HH" or "MI".  Please refer to the discussion
on "Algebraic Functions" in the GBase Guide to SQL: Syntax for the
details.


-1278	Invalid escape sequence.

Check the pattern-matching string that the LIKE or MATCHES clause of
the statement specifies. In an ANSI database, the only valid characters
that can be escaped are: %, _, and the escape character for the LIKE
clause, and *, ?, [, ], and the escape character for the MATCHES
clause.


-1279	Value exceeds string column length.

This message applies only to ANSI databases. You attempted to insert into a
CHAR, NCHAR, VARCHAR, NVARCHAR or LVARCHAR column using a string host
variable, but the string is too long.


-1280	Library API incompatibility found in libgen.so.

The libgen.so shared library compiled with your client application is
incompatible with the version in the $GBASEDBTDIR/lib directory.
Recompile your application with GBASEDBTDIR set to the path of the new
libgen.so shared library.


-1281	Library API incompatibility found in libos.so.

The libos.so shared library compiled with your client application is
incompatible with the version in the $GBASEDBTDIR/lib directory.
Recompile your application with GBASEDBTDIR set to the path of the new
libos.so shared library.


-1282	Library API incompatibility found in libsql.so.

The libsql.so shared library compiled with your client application is
incompatible with the version in the $GBASEDBTDIR/lib directory.
Recompile your application with GBASEDBTDIR set to the path of the new
libsql.so shared library.


-1283	Library API incompatibility found in libgls.so.

The libgls.so shared library compiled with your client application is
incompatible with the version in the $GBASEDBTDIR/lib directory.
Recompile your application with GBASEDBTDIR set to the path of the new
libgls.so shared library.


-1284	Value will not fit in a BIGINT or an INT8.

The BIGINT or BIGSERIAL or INT8 or SERIAL8 data type can accept numbers 
with absolute values from 0 through 9,223,372,036,854,775,807 (plus or 
minus (2 to the 63rd power) - 1).

To store numbers that are outside this range, redefine the column or
variable to use the DECIMAL data type. For more information on valid
ranges of data types, see the GBase Guide to SQL: Reference.


-1285	Internal error: data type unknown.

If this internal error recurs, please note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1301	This value is not among the valid possibilities.

A list or range of acceptable values has been established for this
column (via an INCLUDE attribute in the form-specification file). You
must enter a value within the acceptable range.


-1302	The two entries were not the same. Try again.

To guard against typographical errors, this field has been designated
VERIFY (in the form-specification file). You must enter the value in
this field twice, identically. Carefully reenter the data.
Alternatively, you can cancel the form entry with the Interrupt key
(usually CTRL-C, but see the operating instructions that the program
author supplied).


-1303	You cannot use this editing feature because a picture exists.

This field is defined (in the form-specification file) with a PICTURE
attribute to specify its format. You cannot use certain editing keys
(for example, CTRL-A, CTRL-D, and CTRL-X) while you are editing such a
field. Use only printable characters and backspace to enter the value.


-1304	Error in field.

You entered a value in this field that cannot be stored in the program
variable that is meant to receive it. For example, possibly you entered
a decimal number when the application provided only an integer
variable, or you entered a character string that is longer than the
application expected. Note all the circumstances and then discuss the
problem with the person who wrote the application program.


-1305	This field requires an entered value.

The cursor is in a form field that has been designated REQUIRED. You
must enter some value before the cursor can move to another field. To
enter a null value, type any printable character and then backspace.
Alternatively, you can cancel the form entry with the Interrupt key
(usually CTRL-C, but see the operating instructions that the program
author supplied).


-1306	Type again for verification.

The cursor is in a form field that has been designated VERIFY. You must
enter the value twice, identically, before the cursor can move to
another field. This procedure helps to ensure that no typographical
errors occur during data entry. Alternatively, you can cancel the form
entry with the Interrupt key (usually CTRL-C, but see the operating
instructions that the program author supplied).


-1307	Cannot insert another row - the input array is full.

You are entering data into an array of records that is represented in
the program by an array of program variables. That array is now full;
no place is available to store another record. Press the ACCEPT key
(usually ESCAPE, but see the operating instructions that the program
author supplied) to process the records that you have entered.


-1308	Cannot delete row - it has no data.

You pressed the Delete Row function key (usually F2, but see the
operating instructions that the program author supplied) in an empty
row. Nothing was deleted.


-1309	There are no more rows in the direction you are going.

You are attempting to scroll an array of records farther than it can
go, either scrolling up at the top or scrolling down at the bottom of
the array. Further attempts will have the same result.


-1310	Exiting the current function without executing a RETURN statement.

The current function does not return void but is about to exit without
executing a RETURN statement.


-1312	FORMS statement error number number.

A problem exists with a screen form. Look up error number in this
document. Consider it in relation to the current statement.


-1313	SQL statement error number number.

The current statement calls on the database server that detected an
error and returned an error code number. Look up number in this
document. Also look for other error messages.


-1314	Program stopped at statement, line number line.

At the indicated point in the program, an error was detected. Look for
other error messages that give details of the error. Use the numbers in
this message to locate the error in the program source file.


-1315	4GL run-time error number number.

The program stopped because an error was detected. Look up error code
number in this document. Also look for other error messages for more
details.


-1316	ISAM error number number.

The current statement called on the database server, which detected an
error (probably reported in a display of error -1313). This message
contains additional detail on the cause of the error. Look up number in
this document.


-1317	A numeric conversion error has occurred due to incompatibility
between a calling program and its function parameters or between a variable
and its assigned expression.

4GL converts between one data type and another automatically whenever
it can do so without losing information. In the current statement, it
could not do so. Look first for function calls, and inspect the values
that are passed as parameters. Check that the values that are passed
agree in type with the parameters as they are defined in the function
bodies. (An example of such an error would be calling a function
fun("X") when within the function its parameter was defined as an
integer.) If the statement is a LET statement, check that the value
that is computed on the right can be accommodated in the variable that
is named on the left.


-1318	A parameter count mismatch has occurred between the calling function
and the called function.

Either too many or too few parameters were given in the call to the
function. The call is probably in a different source module from the
called functions. Inspect the definition of the function, and check
all places where it is called to ensure that they use the number of
parameters that it declares.


-1319	The 4GL program has run out of runtime data space memory.

You must reduce the data space that the program requires. Review the
size of large character variables and the dimensions of arrays. You
might need to split the program into separate programs that load
separately, if that is possible.


-1320	A function has not returned the correct number of values expected
by the calling function.

If the function was invoked as part of an expression, then it returned
more than one value. If a CALL invoked it, the number of expressions
that follow the RETURN statement (in the function) was different from
the number of variables that are listed in the RETURNING clause (in the
CALL statement).

Check that the correct function was called. Review the logic of the
function, especially its RETURN statements, to ensure that it always
returns the expected number of values.


-1321	A validation error has occurred as a result of the VALIDATE command.

The VALIDATE statement tests the current value of variables against
rules that are stored in the syscolval table. It has detected a
mismatch. Ordinarily, the program would use the WHENEVER statement to
trap this error and display or correct the erroneous values. Inspect
the VALIDATE statement to see which variables were being tested and
find out why they were wrong.


-1322	A report output file cannot be opened.

The file that the REPORT TO statement specifies cannot be opened. Check
that your account has permission to write such a file, that the disk is
not full, and that you have not exceeded some limit on the number of
open files.


-1323	A report output pipe cannot be opened.

The pipe that the REPORT TO PIPE statement specifies could not be
started. Check that all programs that are named in it exist and are
accessible from your execution path. Also look for operating-system
messages that might give more specific errors.


-1324	A report output file cannot be written to.

The file that the REPORT TO statement specifies was opened, but an
error occurred while writing to it. Possibly the disk is full. Look for
operating- system messages that might give more information.


-1326	An array variable has been referenced outside of its specified
dimensions.

The subscript expression for an array has produced a number that is
either less than one or greater than the number of elements in the
array. Review the program logic that leads up to this statement to
determine how the error was made.


-1327	An insert statement could not be prepared for inserting rows into
a temporary table used for a report.

Within the report function, 4GL generated an SQL statement to save rows
into a temporary table. The dynamic preparation of the statement (see
the reference material on the PREPARE statement) produced an error.
Probably the database tables are not defined now, at execution time, as
they were when the program was compiled. Either the database has been
changed, or the program has selected a different database than the one
that was current during compilation. Possibly the database
administrator has revoked SELECT privilege from you for one or more of
the tables that the report uses. Look for other error messages that
might give more details.


-1328	A temporary table needed for a report could not be created in
the selected database. The user must have permission to create tables in
the selected database.

Within the report definition, 4GL generated an SQL statement to save
rows into a temporary table, but the temporary table could not be
created. Probably no disk space is left in the database, or you
already have a table in your current database with the same name as the
temporary table that the report definition is attempting to create as a
sorting table.

Another possible cause is that the report name is too long. It should be 16
characters or fewer if your database server allows only table names
up to 18 characters long, to leave room for the "t_" prefix.

The sorting table is named "t_reportname". For example, a report named
"order_rpt" would name its sorting table "t_order_rpt". Users should
avoid beginning table names with "t_".

Another possible cause of this error with some database servers is that
you have exceeded an operating-system limit on open files.

Look for other error messages that might give more details.


-1329	A database index could not be created for a temporary database
table needed for a report.

Within the report definition, 4GL generated SQL statements to save rows
into a temporary table. However, an index could not be created on the
temporary table. Probably an index with the same name already exists in
the database. (The sorting index is named "i_reportname"; for example,
"i_order_rpt".) Possibly no disk space is available in the file system
or dbspace. Another possibility with some database servers is that you
have exceeded an operating-system limit on open files. Look for other
error messages that might give more details.


-1330	A row could not be inserted into a temporary report table.

Within the report definition, 4GL generated SQL statements that would
save rows into a temporary table. However, an error occurred while rows
were being inserted. Probably no disk space is left in the database.
Look for other error messages that might give more details.


-1331	A row could not be fetched from a temporary report table.

Within the report definition, 4GL generated SQL statements to select
rows from a temporary table. The table was built successfully but now
an error occurred while rows were being retrieved from it. Almost the
only possible cause is a hardware failure or an error in the database
server. Check for operating-system messages that might give more
details.


-1332	A character variable has referenced subscripts that are out of range.

In the current statement, a variable that is used in taking a substring
of a character value contains a number less than one or a number
greater than the size of the variable, or the first substring
expression is larger than the second. Review the program logic that
leads up to this statement to find the cause of the error.


-1333	Strings of length > 512 cannot be returned from function calls.

The current RETURN statement contains an expression that evaluates to a
character string longer than 512 characters. This situation is not
supported. Review the logic of the function, and modify it so that it
does not return such a long character value. You can assign a longer
string to a global variable.


-1334	The 4GL program cannot allocate any more space for temporary
string storage.

You should not see this message from a program that is compiled at a
version later than Version 4.1; however, programs that are compiled by
4GL Version 4.1 and earlier must deal with this issue.

Temporary string storage is used while evaluating a character
expression. It is allocated by a simple algorithm from a fixed-size
buffer. Space in this buffer is not reclaimed until the last pending
character expression is finished. Because most expressions complete
immediately, the string buffer is normally emptied as fast as it is
used.

However, when expressions involve function calls, expression evaluation
is suspended during the function call. The buffer is not cleared until
the function returns. For example, temporary space is used for the
literal "###" and the result of the USING operator in the following
statement:

LET charvar = numvar USING '###', myfunc()

These pending values remain in the string buffer for the duration of
the call to myfunc(). If the aggregate total of all temporary character
values that are used during the evaluation of myfunc() and its
sub-functions exceeds the buffer size, this error occurs.

You can usually prevent the error by isolating function calls in
separate statements, as in the following example:

LET charvar = myfunc()
LET charvar = numvar USING '###', charvar clipped

The string buffer is free during the call to myfunc() in the first
statement and free again as soon as the second statement completes.

The short form of a WHEN clause in a CASE statement also creates a
suspended character expression. In the following example, temporary
string storage is tied up throughout the calls to func_A() and
func_B().

CASE charvar
        WHEN 'A' CALL func_A()
        WHEN 'B' CALL func_B()
...

The longer form of the WHEN clause does not do this because evaluation
of the character expression is completed before the function call
begins.

CASE
        WHEN charvar = 'A' CALL func_A()
        WHEN charvar = 'B' CALL func_B()

Finally, a known error in some versions of GBase-4GL Version 4.1
causes a spurious error of this type when the WORDWRAP clause appears
in a PRINT statement. If the error recurs, note all
circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1335	A report is accepting output or being finished before it has been
started.

The program executed an OUTPUT TO REPORT or FINISH REPORT statement
before it executed a START REPORT. Review the program logic that leads
up to this statement to find the cause of the error.


-1336	Module name in the pcode file contains pcode version compile-version.
This program can run pcode version runner-version. Run the pcode compiler
with the -V option to check the pcode version that it produces. Then
recompile all modules of your program, and run it again.

The program runner or a customized runner must be the same software
version as the program compiler. To check that the programs are at the
same level, execute each with the -V option. That option displays their
version numbers. When you determine that you are using compatible
software, recompile your program.


-1337	The variable name has been redefined with a different type or length.

The variable that is shown is defined in the GLOBALS section of two or
more modules, but it is defined differently in some modules than in
others. Possibly modules were compiled at different times, with some
change to the common GLOBALS file between. Possibly the variable is
declared as a module variable in some module that does not include the
GLOBALS file.


-1338	The function name has not been defined in any module in the program.

The named function is called from at least one module of the program,
but it is defined in none. If you are using the Programmer's
Environment, possibly one module was not defined as part of a
multimodule program. If you are working at the command line, possibly
one or more compiled .4go modules were omitted when the program files
were concatenated to form the .4gi file.


-1339	Global variable name cannot be found in the descriptor table.

This error indicates an internal problem in the runner. If the error
recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1340	The error log has not been started.

The program called the errorlog() function without first calling the
startlog() function. Review the program logic to find out the cause of
this error.


-1343	No help file specified.

This INPUT, PROMPT, or MENU statement contains a HELP help-number
clause; however, no message file has been established. The OPTIONS HELP
FILE statement establishes the message file, but the statement has not
yet been executed. Review the program logic, and modify it to execute
an OPTIONS statement with a HELP FILE clause before it is needed.


-1344	GBase Run Time Facility.

No current GBase product displays this message.


-1345	Undefined opcode.

The p-code file for the program (whose file suffix is .4go) has become
corrupted. Recompile the whole program, and run it again. If the same
error occurs, check that you are running the identical version of both
the p-code compiler and the p-code runner. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1346	Number is too large for a DECIMAL data type.

The DECIMAL data type accommodates numbers from 10 to the -130th power
through 10 to the 124th power in absolute value. The precision (number
of significant digits) varies from 1 to 32; however, the source of this
error is not the length of the number but its magnitude.


-1347	Number is too small for a DECIMAL data type.

The DECIMAL data type accommodates numbers from 10 to the -130th power
through 10 to the 124th power in absolute value. The precision (number
of significant digits) varies from 1 to 32; however, the source of this
error is not the length of the number but its magnitude.


-1348	An attempt was made to divide by zero.

Zero cannot be a divisor. In some cases, this error arises because the
divisor is a character value that does not convert properly to numeric.


-1349	Character to numeric conversion error.

A character value is being converted to numeric form for storage in a
numeric column or variable. However, the character string cannot be
interpreted as a number. It contains some characters other than white
space, digits, a sign, a decimal, or the letter e, or else the parts
are in the wrong order so that the number cannot be deciphered.


-1350	It is not possible to convert between the specified types.

The system will attempt any data conversion that makes sense. However,
some conversions, such as INTERVAL to DATE, or DATETIME to MONEY, are
not supported. Possibly you referenced the wrong variable or column.
Check that you have specified the data types that you intended and that
you formatted literal representations of data values correctly.


-1351	The function (or report) name has already been defined. Function
and report cannot both have the same name.

Each function (or report, which is similar to a function) must have a
unique name within the program. You must change either this use or the
prior one.


-1352	name may not be used as both a function (or report) name and
a variable name.

The name that is shown has been defined at least two ways. Names at the
global or module level (function names, report names, and names of
global or module variables) must be unique. Locate all the definitions
of this name, and change all but one of them.


-1353	Use '!' to edit TEXT and BYTE fields.

The built-in form editor cannot deal with TEXT or BYTE columns.
However, you can designate an external program that can display or edit
a value from a TEXT or BYTE column. To call the external program for
any field, put the cursor in that field, and key the exclamation mark
(!) character. If an external program has been defined (with the
PROGRAM attribute in the form specification), it will be started. In a
TEXT field, if no external program is specified in the form, the
program that the DBEDIT environment variable names will be started.


-1355	Cannot build temporary file.

A TEXT or BYTE variable has been located in a temporary file using the
LOCATE statement. The current statement assigns a value into that
variable, so 4GL attempted to create the temporary file, but an error
occurred. Possibly no disk space is available, or your account does not
have permission to create a temporary file. 4GL creates a temporary
file in the directory that the DBTEMP environment variable specifies.
Look for operating-system error messages that might give more
information. Check the value of DBTEMP. Since Version 5.01, the
GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment variable, but
GBase  Dynamic Server and GBase Database Server do not.


-1356	Write error on temporary file filename.

The operating system signalled an error during output to a temporary
file in which a TEXT or BYTE variable was being saved. Possibly the
disk is full, or a hardware failure occurred. For more information,
look for operating-system messages.


-1357	Read error on temporary file filename.

The operating system signalled an error during input from a temporary
file in which a TEXT or BYTE variable was saved. Possibly a hardware
failure occurred. For more information, look for operating-system
messages.


-1358	Write error on TEXT or BYTE file filename.

The operating system signalled an error during output to a temporary
file in which a TEXT or BYTE variable was being saved. Possibly the
disk is full, or a hardware failure occurred. For more information,
look for operating-system messages.


-1359	Read error on TEXT or BYTE file filename.

The operating system signalled an error during output to a temporary
file in which a TEXT or BYTE variable was being saved. Possibly the
disk is full, or a hardware failure occurred. For more information,
look for operating-system messages.


-1360	No PROGRAM= clause for this field.

You pressed the exclamation-mark key (!) while the cursor was in a TEXT
or BYTE field. However, no external program has been designated for
this field (with the PROGRAM attribute in the form-specification file).
If this field is a TEXT field, you can set the DBEDIT environment
variable before you start the program to specify a text editor.


-1361	Illegal TEXT or BYTE file name. Null names are not permitted.

The BYTE or TEXT variable has been located in a file using the 4GL
statement LOCATE. However, the filename that is given for the variable
is a null string. Because the file does not exist, 4GL cannot do
anything with it.


-1362	4GL runtime stack violation.

The program attempted to access outside the boundaries of the stack. If
the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-1363	A fatal internal error has occurred - Application Terminating.

The program attempted to access outside the memory that belongs to the
application. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1364	Error recovery setup failed - Application Terminating.

The mechanism that allows the application to catch and handle internal
errors could not complete its actions. Return to DOS, and restart
Windows.


-1365	Application appname not found.

The Application Launcher, fglaunch, did not find the requested
application.


-1366	Unable to load application appname.

The Application Launcher, fglaunch, could not load the requested
application. The DLL does not have the required NewEra entry points, so
it must not be a NewEra DLL. Check to see if the NewEra DLL has the
same name as an existing system DLL.


-1367	DLL dllname is not a resource DLL - Application Terminating.

The program options for the Application Launcher, fglaunch, specified
that the DLL dllname included resources, but no resources were found,


-1371	The field fieldname does not exist in the current form.

The indicated field name has been given to the NEXT FIELD statement or
to the pf_nxfield() function, but it is not defined in the current
form. A common error is to confuse the tag name, which is used in the
screen layout and to the left of the equal sign in the ATTRIBUTES
section, with the field name, which is the column name used to the
right of the equal sign in the ATTRIBUTES section. Use the latter when
you refer to fields.


-1372	The number entered is too large to fit in the decimal or money variable.

Probably no current GBase product returns this message. If it
appears, refer to the explanation of error -1226. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1373	The field fieldname is not in the list of fields in the
CONSTRUCT/INPUT statement.

The built-in function get_fldbuf() or field_touched() has been called
with the field name shown. However, input from that field was not
requested in this CONSTRUCT or INPUT statement. As a result, the
function cannot return any useful value. Review all uses of these
functions, and compare them to the list of fields at the beginning of
the statement.


-1374	SQL character truncation or transaction warning.

The program set WHENEVER WARNING STOP, and a warning condition arose.
If the statement involved is a DATABASE statement, the condition is
that the database that was just opened uses a transaction log. On any
other statement, the condition is that a character value from the
database had to be truncated to fit in its destination.


-1375	SQL NULL value in aggregate or mode ANSI database warning.

The program set WHENEVER WARNING STOP, and a warning condition arose.
If the statement that is involved is a DATABASE statement, the
condition is that the database that was just opened is ANSI compliant.
On any other statement, the condition is that a null value has been
used in the computation of an aggregate value.


-1376	SQL, database server, or program variable mismatch warning.

The program set WHENEVER WARNING STOP, and a warning condition arose.
If the statement that is involved is a DATABASE or CREATE DATABASE
statement, the condition is that the database server opened the
database. On any other statement, the condition is that a SELECT
statement returned more values than there were program variables to
contain them.


-1377	SQL float-to-decimal conversion warning.

The program set WHENEVER WARNING STOP, and a warning condition arose.
The condition is that in the database that was just opened, the
database server will use the DECIMAL data type for FLOAT values.


-1378	SQL non-ANSI extension warning.

A database operation was performed that is not part of ANSI SQL,
although the current database is ANSI compliant. This message is
informational only.


-1379	Report functions may not be called directly. Use the OUTPUT
TO REPORT statement.

A report function has been entered as a result of a CALL statement.
Report functions can only be executed using the START REPORT, FINISH
REPORT, and OUTPUT TO REPORT statements. Review the program. Look for
places where the report function name is called like a normal function,
and change them. If you want to use some of the code in the report
function as a subroutine, place it in a separate subroutine, and call
it from the report function and other places.


-1380	Only character expressions may be CLIPPED.

You cannot CLIP a noncharacter expression.


-1381	Cannot execute another runner when debugging.

An instance of the 4GL runner is currently executing. While you are
debugging, you cannot launch additional instances of the runner through
a RUN command, the RUN accelerator button, or directly from Windows. To
launch a new instance of the runner, first quit the currently running
4GL application.


-1390	The class "class" has not been defined in any module in the program.

The named class has been declared, and it has been used, but it has
never been defined. It must be defined at the definition of the first
member function of that class.


-1391	Invalid class specified in AS clause.

The class specified in an AS clause of a NEW or COPY operation must be
derived from the stated class.


-1392	Cannot use a NULL object.

In the p-code runner, an attempt was made to dereference a NULL
object. Perhaps the program has defined an object, then tried to
invoke a member function of the object before creating it through
!copy() or !derive().


-1393	The class class has already been defined.

The program attempted to define a class for a second time.


-1394	Invalid ixRow object argument for built-in function.

An ixRow argument is expected as the first argument for the built-in
functions UNPACKROW() and PACKROWINTO().


-1396	A report PRINT FILE source file cannot be opened for reading.

The file that is named in a PRINT FILE statement cannot be opened.
Review the file name. If it is not in the current directory, you must
specify a full path. If the file is specified correctly, check that it
exists and that your account has file permissions to read it. Look for
operating-system error messages that might give more details.


-1778	The security subsystem could not be initialized for this command.

Ensure that this account has sufficient privileges.


-1779	This command can be executed only by members of the gbasedbt-admin
group.

Log in with a user account that belongs to the gbasedbt-admin group, or
ask the Windows administrator to add your user account to the
gbasedbt-admin group. Then try the procedure again.


-1780	The database server can be started only by user gbasedbt.

You must be a member of the gbasedbt-admin group to start the database
server. Log in with a user account that belongs to the gbasedbt-admin
group, or ask the Windows administrator to add your user account to
the gbasedbt-admin group.


-1781	The database server could not retrieve the account information for
this user account.

The account information is missing or invalid. Run User Manager to
check the validity of this account.


-1782	The database server cannot validate this user.

The user does not have a valid account or password on the computer
where the database server is running. You must create a user account
and password for this user.


-1783	UnSetup will carry out these actions:

    *   Remove the groupname group and the username user accounts

    *   Remove the servicename service

    *   Remove the branch Software\\branchname\\keyname\\ from the
	registry

Do you also want to remove all GBase product files and directories?
(Y,N,Q)


-1784	The database server could not initialize the security subsystem.

The database server runs under the user gbasedbt account, which must
have the following privileges:

    *   Log on as a service

    *   Create a token object

    *   Act as part of the operating system

    *   Belong to the gbasedbt-admin group

To verify that user gbasedbt has these rights, access the User Manager,
and use the Policies/User Rights dialog box.


-1785	pathname\buildsmi.ext

This message refers to the output of buildsmi.bat. For Windows, look
into the file %GBASEDBTDIR%\etc\buildsmi.out if "Error building
sysmaster" appears in the online.log file.


-1786	The command line option specified in the Control Panel/Services/Startup
dialog was -i.

The parameter that was specified in the Control Panel/Services/Startup
dialog box was -i, which causes the database server to initialize the
root dbspace, destroying any information that it currently contains.
When the database server runs as a service under Windows, it does
not prompt you to confirm the parameters that you have specified. If
you are sure that you want to initialize the root dbspace, specify the
parameters as -iy instead.


-1787	The database server detected a mismatch in the configuration file.
Mirror chunk pathname = pathname, Offset = offset K, Size = size K.

Check the actual file size of the chunk against the size that is
specified for the mirror chunk in the ONCONFIG file.


-1788	The audit configuration-file pathname is too long. Its pathname
should contain at most maxnum characters.

The maximum number of characters, or maxnum, is 128.


-1789	The database server could not get account information for user username.

Check to see that the user account exists and is valid.


-1790	The database server could not be started.

Ensure that the account used to start the database server
is a member of the gbasedbt-admin group.


-1791	The database server encountered a fatal error while initializing
shared memory.

Look for the cause of this error in %GBASEDBTDIR%\online.log.


-1792	The database server cannot access %GBASEDBTDIR%\dbssodir or
%GBASEDBTDIR%\aaodir.

Check access to the path segments that lead to %GBASEDBTDIR%\dbssodir
and %GBASEDBTDIR%\aaodir. If %GBASEDBTDIR% is on a network drive, make
sure that the oninit process privileges are not altered. In addition,
make sure that the AAO and DBSSO group names are valid in the
registry.


-1793	The database server could not open the chunk chunkname. The system
error value returned was errno.

Ensure that this chunk exists and has the correct permissions for
access.


-1794	The primary chunk chunkname containing the root dbspace is
invalid. It needs to be re-initialized.

The chunk that contains the root dbspace is corrupt or out of date. If
you have backed up your database server, you can perform a full-system
restore to restore the root dbspace. If you have not backed up your
database server, you will need to reinitialize the root dbspace by
using the -iy parameters when you start the database server.

Warning: Starting the database server with the parameters -iy reinitializes
the root dbspace and effectively destroys all existing data. You will
no longer be able to access existing databases unless you subsequently
perform a full system restore. Do not reinitialize the root dbspace
unless you are certain that you want to do so.


-1795	The number of chunks specified in shared memory, num_chunks, is too
large.

The maximum allowable number with the current configuration is
num_chunks. Specify larger chunk sizes, and reduce the number of
chunks.


-1796	The database server detected a mismatch in the registry subkey data for
MIRRORPATH. The data retrieved for MIRRORPATH was pathname.

The root dbspace has not been mirrored. To add mirroring, use onspaces
or onmonitor.


-1797	The root dbspace is not large enough for the specified configuration.
The actual size is sizenum, and the required size is sizenum.

The root dbspace will not fit on the specified drive. Free the amount
of space that is needed on the specified drive, or change the ROOTPATH
configuration parameter to specify a different drive with more space
available. Then restart the database server with the -iy parameters to
initialize the root dbspace.

Warning: Starting the database server with the parameters -iy
reinitializes the root dbspace and effectively destroys any existing
data. You will no longer be able to access existing databases unless
you subsequently perform a full-system restore. Do not reinitialize the
root dbspace unless you are certain that you want to do so.


-1800	Invalid transaction state.

You must commit or rollback the current transaction before you
disconnect.


-1801	Multiple-server transaction not supported.

You are attempting to span multiple connections within a single
transaction. You can switch to a different connection while a
transaction is active if you use the WITH CONCURRENT TRANSACTION clause
when you establish the connection.

This error message can occur when you try to switch connections as
follows:

    *   If the current connection is to a Version 6.0 or later database
	server, you did not specify the WITH CONCURRENT TRANSACTION
	clause when you established the connection, and there is an
	active transaction in the current connection.

    *   If the current connection is to a Version 5.0 database server,
	you did not specify the WITH CONCURRENT TRANSACTION clause when
	you established the connection, and a database is currently
	open on this connection.


-1802	Connection name in use.

A connection with the same connection name has already been made. Each
connection must have a unique connection name. Rename the connection,
and try again.


-1803	Connection does not exist.

The connection name in a SET CONNECTION or DISCONNECT statement does
not refer to an established connection. Check your program to see that
the connection was made and, if so, that it was not disconnected. Also,
check the spelling of the connection name in the statement that is
failing.


-1804	Invalid database environment.

The database server cannot connect to the database environment that you
specified. The server cannot locate either the database server or the
database that you specified. Check the syntax of your statement. If you
are specifying a database server, you must use the @ sign. You cannot
use //.


-1805	Invalid connection name.

The connection name is invalid. It must conform to the same rules as any
other identifier; that is, it cannot exceed the maximum length, cannot be an
ANSI reserved word, must begin with a letter or underscore, and can contain
only letters, digits, underscores, and, in GBase Database Server 9.2 or later,
dollar-sign characters.

The maximum length for identifiers depends on the database server. In
GBase Database Server 9.2 or later, the maximum length is 128 characters. In
other GBase servers, the maximum length is 18 characters.


Check that the connection name is a valid identifier and that you are using
the connection name and not some other value. If a connection name was used
with the original CONNECT TO statement, you must use the connection name in
subsequent connection statements.


-1807	No connection to disconnect.

You are attempting to disconnect a connection that does not exist at
this time. Check your program to see that you have not already
performed a DISCONNECT statement for this connection.


-1808	Reconnect to server_name server to perform the database operation.

If you connect to a database server using the CONNECT statement, you
cannot implicitly reconnect to a server through one of the DATABASE
statements (DATABASE, START DATABASE, and so on). You must switch to it
with the SET CONNECTION statement.


-1809	Server rejected the connection.

Check that you have permission to connect to the server that you
specified. If you specified both a database server and a database,
check to see that you have permission to access the database.

This error message can occur when you are trying to use a Pluggable Authentication Module (PAM) feature of IDS when one or both of the following conditions exists:

    *   The PAM configuration file is not set correctly. Refer to the OS vendor
	documentation for more information.


    *   The client or server computer is not configured to handle PAM messages 
	that are generated from a connection request. 

-1810	Disconnect error.

A DISCONNECT ALL statement has not disconnected a connection. The
database server for one of the connections might have terminated. If
not, the cause is internal to the software. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1811	Implicit connection not allowed after an explicit connection.

Once you have used the CONNECT TO statement to establish an explicit
connection to a database server, you cannot use one of the DATABASE
statements to connect implicitly to another database server. After an
explicit connection, you must use the CONNECT TO statement to connect
to other database servers.


-1812	Internal error.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-1813	Only the current connection can be made dormant.

You used the SET CONNECTION DORMANT statement incorrectly. You
attempted to put a connection that was already dormant into the dormant
state. Or you attempted to put a connection that is in use by another
thread in a dormant state.


-1814	Need to allocate collection or row variable before using it.

The application needs to call ALLOCATE COLLECTION or ALLOCATE ROW
before it uses a host variable of type collection or of type row in an
SQL statement.


-1815	No type information for collection or row is available.

The application needs to declare a typed collection or row host
variable before using it in an SQL statement. The application can fetch
the complex type data from a column of type set, type list, type
multiset or type row into their untyped collection or row host variable
before it uses the data in the SQL statements.


-1816	No such column exists in the collection or row.

The field name specified by the application does not exist in the
description of the collection or row host variable. Check the
description of the field names within the declaration and make sure the
field name specified matches the one in the declaration.


-1817	No collection or row variable provided.

A collection or row host variable was expected but none was provided, or the
host variable used in the derived table syntax is not a collection or row
host variable.

Check the declaration of this host variable in the application and change it
to a collection or row host variable declaration.


-1818	Input variable type does not match collection or row definition.

Certain data types cannot be cast on the client. The following
situations return this error:

    *   Trying to cast any complex type into any other complex type
	(that is, casting a set into list)

    *   Trying to cast a built-in type (for example, INT) into a
        complex type

    *   Trying to cast a complex type into a user-defined data type

    *   Trying to cast a built-in type into a user-defined data type

Check the SQL statement and make sure the types are compatible.


-1820	The host variable type was changed between fetches or puts.

If the host variable is used for user-defined-data-type columns or if
the host variable itself is a user-defined-data-type host variable, the
host variable type and length cannot be changed between fetches or puts.


-1821	Host variable is not large enough to hold the data returned from
the server.

The memory allocated by the application to fetch the user-defined data
type is not sufficient. Change the application so that it allocates
more memory before it fetches this user-defined data type.


-1822	Invalid argument.

One of the arguments passed to the function has an illegal value or is
NULL. Check the documentation for the valid values that can be passed
to this function.


-1823	Need more memory to store data.

This error is returned from ifx_var_setlen() and ifx_var_setdata() when
the application tries to set the length or the data to a size that is
larger than the amount of memory allocated in ifx_var_alloc(). Find the
current allocated length by calling ifx_var_getlen(), resize it if
necessary by calling ifx_var_alloc(), and execute ifx_var_setlen() or
ifx_var_setdata() again.


-1824	Message cannot be found.

The server user-defined routine has been executed, but the message text
cannot be found. Check the user-defined routine to make sure all
SQLSTATES returned by the server have a corresponding message text
associated with them.


-1825	INSERT and DELETE cannot be performed on ROW host variables.

Only UPDATE and SELECT statements can be used with row host variables.
Check the derived table syntax that is using the row host variable and
use UPDATE or SELECT instead.


-1826	DESCRIBE information about this statement is not available at this time.

When the DEFERRED_PREPARE option is turned on, the description of the
statement is not known until the cursor is opened. Therefore, a DESCRIBE
can only be executed after an OPEN. If DEFERRED_PREPARE and OPTOFC are
both turned on, then the DESCRIBE can happen only after the FETCH, because
the OPEN is not executed until the FETCH is executed.


-1828	Cannot use scroll or hold cursor with client collections.

A cursor declaration for a client collection cannot be for a scroll or hold
cursor, as in the following declarations:

    /** scroll cursor case **/
    EXEC SQL DECLARE cur1 SCROLL CURSOR
             FOR SELECT * FROM table(:collection_host_variable);

    /** hold cursor case **/
    EXEC SQL DECLARE cur2 CURSOR WITH HOLD
             FOR SELECT * FROM table(:collection_host_variable);

Declare the cursor as follows instead:

    EXEC SQL DECLARE cur3 CURSOR
             FOR SELECT * FROM table(:collection_host_variable);


-1829	Cannot open file citoxmsg.pam.

The file citoxmsg.pam is missing from the directory $GBASEDBTDIR/msg.

If this error occurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-1831	Combination of FetArrSize, Deferred-PREPARE, and OPTOFC is not supported.


-1832	Environment block is greater than 32K.

At the start of a session, the client groups all the environment variables 
that the server will use and sends the environment variables to the server as 
a single block. The maximum allowed size of this block is 32K. The current 
block of environment variables exceeds 32K. Unset one or more environment 
variables or reduce the size of some of the environment variables and then
retry connection to IDS.


-1833	Cannot open file itoxmsg.pam.

The file itoxmsg.pam is missing from the directory $GBASEDBTDIR/msg.

If this error occurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.
