---
title: 07.Error (-501)-(-600)
description: 
published: true
date: 2023-02-26T12:33:01.217Z
tags: 
editor: markdown
dateCreated: 2023-02-26T12:19:44.371Z
---

-501	Index index-name is already not clustered.

The table is no longer clustered on this index (if it ever was). Make
sure that this is the index you meant; if so, you do not need to alter
this index. For a way to see which tables are clustered, see the
discussion of error -500.


-502	Cannot cluster index.

While the database server was building a new copy of the table with
rows in clustered sequence, it got an unexpected error. Check the
accompanying ISAM error code for more information. Typical causes
include a shortage of disk space.


-503	Too many tables locked.

This database server in this host operating system has a limit on the
number of tables that can be locked at one time. It was unable to lock
the table you requested. Roll back the current transaction. Then
redesign the operation to lock fewer tables, to use row-level locking,
or to open the database in exclusive mode.


-504	Cannot lock a view.

This LOCK TABLE statement cannot be carried out because the table
specified is really a view. Only real tables can be locked. Roll back
the current transaction. Then redesign the operation to work against
the real tables on which the view is based, or open the database in
exclusive mode.


-505	Number of columns in UPDATE does not match number of VALUES.

This UPDATE statement uses a SET clause in which a list of column names
is set equal to a list of expressions or to a SELECT statement. The
number of columns on the left of the equal sign is not the same as the
number of data values produced on the right. Roll back the current
transaction. Then rewrite this statement. If a list of expressions is
used, check the punctuation to ensure that each expression is distinct.
If a SELECT statement is used, review it to see how many columns it
returns.


-506	Do not have permission to update all columns.

Your account has been granted the privilege of updating specific
columns, but this UPDATE statement updates all columns or columns for
which you do not have the privilege. Contact the owner of the table or
someone with Database Administrator privilege on this database, and ask
to be granted full UPDATE privilege. For a way to list table owners,
see the discussion of error -313.


-507	Cursor cursor-name not found.

The cursor that is named in the WHERE CURRENT OF clause in this UPDATE
or DELETE statement does not exist. Review the spelling of the name. If
it is as you intended, check the DECLARE statement to ensure that it
has been executed. Also make sure that the cursor has not been freed
with the FREE statement or during a failed automatic re-prepare attempt.


-508	Cannot rename a temporary table.

This RENAME TABLE statement cannot be executed because the specified
table is temporary. You cannot rename a temporary table. Review the
spelling of the table name. If it is as you intended, drop it, and
create it again under a different name.


-509	Cannot rename a column in a temporary table.

This RENAME COLUMN statement cannot be executed because the specified
table is temporary. You cannot rename a column in a temporary table.
Review the spelling of the table name. If it is as you intended, drop
it, and create it again with different columns.


-510	Cannot create synonym for temporary table table-name.

This CREATE SYNONYM statement cannot be executed because the specified
table is temporary. Review the spelling of the table name. If it is as
you intended, redesign the application. Either make the table
permanent, or do not use a synonym.


-511	Cannot modify system catalog table-name.

You are not allowed to update, insert, or delete rows in this table. If
you are absolutely sure that you must do so, sign on as user gbasedbt.
That user account can modify most system-catalog tables except LBAC related
catalog tables. However, this very risky practice is not recommended 
unless you are specifically instructed by GBase Technical Support.


-512	No References privilege on the referenced columns.

You do not have References privilege on the referenced columns. The
owner of the referenced table or a user who has References privilege
with the grant option on that table can grant you this privilege using
the GRANT statement.


-513	Statement not available with this database server.

You cannot do an xa_open() execution if another database is already open.
Make sure that you have closed any open databases before executing xa_open().


-514	Only a DBA can create, drop, grant, or revoke for another user.

This data definition statement specifies a table, view, index, or
synonym that is owned by another user or grants/revokes a privilege as
another user. Any of these things requires Database Administrator 
privilege, which you do not have on this database. If you intended to 
work on objects that you own, review the punctuation of the statement.
At some point in it, you have qualified a name with the user ID of 
another account. Otherwise, get a DBA to grant you DBA privilege or to
perform this operation for you.


-515	Constraint constraint-name has already been dropped.

You are trying to drop a constraint that has already been dropped in
the same ALTER TABLE statement.


-516	System error - temporary output file not created yet.

This internal error indicates a problem in the communication between
the database server and the library functions that call it. Check that
your program is at the same software level as the database server in
use. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-517	The total size of the index is too large or too many parts in
index.

All database servers have limits on the number of columns that can be
included in an index and on the total number of bytes in a key (the sum
of the widths of the columns). This CREATE INDEX statement would exceed
that limit for this database server. GBase Database Server and
GBase Database Server allow 16 key parts (columnar or functional) and
a width of 390 bytes on a 2K page platform. On 4K page platforms or using a 
non-default page size allows greater than 390 bytes for the width of indexed 
columns. GBase SE supports 8 columns and a width of 126 bytes.  Other 
GBase servers allow 16 columns and 255 characters.


-518	Child constraint constraint-name not found.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-519	Cannot update column to illegal value.

One of the values in this UPDATE statement is based on an expression
that is in error. Check each expression in the SET clause for validity.
Look in particular at uses of built-in functions such as LENGTH and
DATE.


-520	Cannot open database tblspace.

The database server cannot locate the disk partition in which it has
stored a table that is referenced in this command. Contact the database
server administrator to find out what the problem is. Possibly the
chunk that contains this tblspace has been taken off-line.


-521	Cannot lock system catalog table-name.

You cannot lock any of the tables that comprise the system catalog. All
users need them at all times. The database server handles concurrent
access to them correctly, so simply remove this statement from your
program.


-522	Table table-name not selected in query.

You used a correlation name to qualify a column name in either a GROUP
BY clause or a SET clause. Consider rewriting the statement in an SPL
routine that you then use as the triggered action, passing the column
value as an argument. In any case, you must rewrite the statement
without a using a correlation name in the GROUP BY clause or the SET
clause.


-523	Can only recover, repair or drop table.

This statement (RECOVER, REPAIR, or DROP) specifies a view. However,
these statements are only supported for real tables, not views. In the
case of DROP, if you drop any of the tables used in the view, the view
will be removed as well. To recover or repair this table, you must
recover or repair the tables on which the view is defined. For a way to
list the names of tables that are views, see the discussion of error
-394.


-524	Lock table can only be used within a transaction.

Because this database has a transaction log, a table can only be locked
within a transaction. Review the program, and ensure that a BEGIN WORK
statement is issued to start a transaction before this statement.


-525	Failure to satisfy referential constraint constraint-name.

During an ALTER TABLE or SET statement, you have added or re-enabled a
referential constraint that the data in the table violates. Check that
the data in the referencing column (child key) exists in the referenced
column (parent key).


-526	Updates are not allowed on a scroll cursor.

For a DECLARE statement, the clause FOR UPDATE is not allowed in
conjunction with the SCROLL keyword. For an UPDATE statement in an
ANSI-compliant database (in which the FOR UPDATE clause is not required
when declaring a cursor for update), the cursor named in this statement
was declared with the SCROLL keyword and may not be used for updates.
The way a scroll cursor is implemented makes it unsafe for updating a
table, since it will sometimes not reflect the current state of the
selected rows. If you want to use a scroll cursor to examine rows and
then update them, you may redesign your application in the following
way (among many). Use the scroll cursor to select also the ROWID of
each row. Declare a second, nonscrolling cursor that selects one row
for update based on its ROWID. When it is time to update a selected
row:

    *   Open the update cursor using the ROWID value found by the
	scrolling cursor.

    *   Fetch the row, and check the error code (the row might have
	been deleted).

    *   If the fetch succeeded, verify that the row contents are
	unchanged from those selected by the scrolling cursor (the row
	is now locked, so it cannot change further, but it might have
	changed between the two fetches).

    *   If the row is unchanged, update it using the nonscrolling cursor.

    *   Close the nonscrolling cursor.

    *   This procedure ensures that the update reflects the current
	state of the table but also retains the convenience of the
	scrolling cursor. A fetch by ROWID of a recently fetched row
	will usually entail no disk activity and so will not cost much
	time.


-527	Lock Mode is not available on this system.

You tried to use the SET LOCK MODE TO WAIT statement on GBase SE,
but your GBase SE database server uses CREATE LOCKING rather than
System V locking. If the error recurs, note all circumstances
and contact GBase Technical Support.

The database server cannot execute the SET LOCK MODE TO WAIT statement
because the host operating system does not have adequate support for
locking to permit waiting for a lock to be released. On this system,
your program will be notified when a table or row is locked (with an
error such as -233 or -378); your program determines what to do next,
such as rolling back the transaction and trying it again.


-528	Maximum output rowsize max-size exceeded.

The total number of bytes that this statement selects exceeds the
maximum that can be passed between the database server and the program.
Make sure that the columns selected are the ones that you intended.
Check that you have not named some very wide character column by
mistake, neglected to specify a substring, or specified too long a
substring. If the selection is what you require, rewrite this SELECT
statement into two or more statements, each of which selects only some
of the fields. If it is a join of several tables, you might best select
all desired data INTO TEMP; then select individual columns of the
temporary table. If this is a fetch via a cursor in a program, you
might revise the program as follows. First, change the cursor to select
only the ROWID of the desired row. Second, augment the FETCH statement
with a series of SELECT statements, each of which selects one or a few
columns WHERE ROWID = the saved row ID.


-529	Cannot attach to shared memory.

This error message appears prior to Version 6.0. Your application
program is unable to initialize its connection to the database server
because you are using a shared-memory implementation. Either the
database shared memory has not been initialized, or the maximum number
of users has already started using the system. Check the accompanying
ISAM error code for more information.


-529	Cannot attach to transaction.

This error message appears beginning with Version 6.0. Your application
program is unable to initialize its connection to the database server
because you are using a shared-memory implementation. Either the
database shared memory has not been initialized, or the maximum number
of users has already started using the system. Check the accompanying
ISAM error code for more information.


-530	Check constraint constraint-name failed.

The check constraint placed on the table column was violated. To see the
check constraint associated with the column, query the syschecks system
catalog table. However, you must know the constrid for the check constraint
before you query syschecks. (The constrid is assigned in the sysconstraints
system catalog table.) Use the following subquery to show the check
constraint for constraint-name:

SELECT * FROM syschecks
        WHERE constrid = (SELECT constrid FROM sysconstraints
           WHERE constrname = constraint-name)

In certain scenarios, you might get this error without a constraint name being
specified. This can happen if you are performing a DDL operation that has a
check constraint that is violated by the existing data on the table.
In this case, the DDL operation would not succeed, and thus the constraint
name would not be in the system catalog.

-531	Duplicate column column-name exists in view.

This CREATE VIEW statement gives a list of column names, and at least
one of them appears twice in the list. Review the list of column names,
and make sure that each appears only once.


-532	Cannot alter temporary table table-name.

The table shown is only a temporary table. It will vanish when this
session ends. Such tables cannot be altered. To alter the shape of the
table, simply drop it, and re-create it.


-533	Extent size too small, minimum size is number k.

The size that is specified for a disk extent (either the EXTENT SIZE or
the NEXT SIZE clause) must be at least four times the disk page size,
as shown. Generally, set EXTENT SIZE large enough to hold all of the
rows as you initially estimate them, and set NEXT SIZE at an eighth or
a quarter of that.


-534	Could not insert new row into table, table is locked.

Database servers at Version 4.0 and later do not return this error. In
earlier versions, its meaning is the same as error -271 with ISAM error
code -113. Roll back the current transaction, and run it again when the
table has been unlocked.


-534	Cannot open EXPLAIN output file.

The statement SET EXPLAIN ON has been executed, and the database server
is trying to open the file sqexplain.out in the current working
directory. An operating-system error of some kind prevents it. See the
ISAM error code for more information. Look for operating-system error
messages that might give more detail. Likely problems include a lack of
write permissions in the current directory and a full disk. This error
message appears beginning with Version 4.1.


-535	Already in transaction.

This BEGIN WORK statement is redundant; a transaction is already in
progress. If this is a program, review its logic to make sure it has
not accidentally failed to end the previous transaction.


-536	Number of columns in child constraint does not match number of
cols in parent constraint.

The number of referencing columns (child key) does not match the number
of referenced columns (parent key) in the referential constraint. Check
that a one-to-one relationship exists between referenced and
referencing columns.


-537	Constraint column column-name not found in table.

The column that is specified in a constraint definition does not
exist.


-538	Cursor cursor-name has already been declared.

The cursor that is named in this DECLARE statement has also been named
in a DECLARE statement that was executed earlier. Possibly the same
DECLARE is being executed in a loop, or possibly the program meant to
execute a FREE statement for this cursor but did not. Review the
program logic to ensure that it executes only a single DECLARE for each
cursor (except after freeing one).


-539	DBTEMP too long.

The pathname in the DBTEMP environment variable exceeds the limit on
pathnames, which is 80 characters. You will have to locate the
temporary directory higher in the directory hierarchy. Since Version
5.01, the GBase SE database server uses the DBTEMP environment
variable, but GBase Database Server and GBase
Server do not.


-540	Write failed on constraints.

An error occurred while defining a constraint. Possibly you have
defined a constraint whose name duplicates the name of another
constraint, table, or index. If this is the case, repeat the statement,
specifying a unique name. Otherwise, check the accompanying ISAM error
code for more information.


-541	User does not have ALTER privilege.

You must have the correct privilege before you can alter the name of a
table or the names, types, or number of columns in it. You must also
have the correct privileges to set the object modes for constraints
and triggers.

You must be the owner of the database object, have Database 
Administrator privilege in the database, or be granted ALTER privilege 
for the database object by its owner or a DBA. See the discussion of
error -313 for a way to list the owners of tables and users with 
DBA privilege.


-542	Cannot specify a column more than once in a constraint, trigger,
or index.

You name the same column more than once in the triggering column list
of an update trigger. Remove the duplicate occurrence of the column
name, and try again. This error also will appear if duplicate column
names exist in the index list.


-543	ESCAPE character must be only one byte.

In the WHERE clause, a subclause ESCAPE char contains more than one
character as char. Review the punctuation of the clause, and revise it
so that it specifies just one byte character.


-544	Cannot have aggregates within aggregates.

The statement contains a call on an aggregate function within the
parameter list for another aggregate function, such as
SUM(MAX(column)). This action is not supported because all aggregates
are calculated over the same groups of rows. If you did not intend an
expression of this sort, look for missing or misplaced parentheses. If
you did intend it, rethink the query. For example, you might select the
MAX values into a temporary table and then take their SUM.


-545	No write permission for table table-name.

Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. With this
database server, a database is a directory with the name dbname.dbs,
while tables and indexes are files within that directory. You need to
have read and write access to all these files in order to exercise
normal database functions.


-546	Cannot have host variables when creating a view view-name.

This statement either prepares or executes a CREATE VIEW statement in
which the SELECT statement refers to host variables. This action is not
supported. The SELECT statement in a view can be executed from any
program and cannot rely on the variables of one program. Review the
CREATE VIEW statement, and make sure that it does not contain the names
of any host variables, an INTO clause, or a ? placeholder.

Database servers after Version 5.01 do not use this error message.


-547	Must rollforward database in the directory where the database is.

Before you execute the ROLLFORWARD statement, make the current
directory the directory that contains the dbname.dbs directory for the
database. Then execute the statement again.


-548	No referential constraint or trigger allowed on a TEMP table.

You cannot create a constraint or a trigger on a temporary (TEMP)
table. Consider creating the temporary table as a permanent table in
the database. If this option is feasible, create the table, and then
create the trigger on it.


-549	Column column-name in UNIQUE constraint is not a column in the table.

The column appears in the list of columns for a UNIQUE clause, but it
is not one of the columns defined in this table. Check the spelling of
all column names in this statement. If they are as you intend, then
check the definition of the table. See the discussion of error -328 for
a way to list all column names in a table.

Database servers after Version 5.01 do not use this error message.


-550	Total length of columns in constraint is too long.

The total size of all the columns listed in a UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, or
FOREIGN KEY clause is limited. The limit is the same as the restriction
on the total size of all columns in a composite index.
GBase Database Server allows 16 key parts and a width of 390 bytes
on a 2K page platform. On 4K page platforms or using a non-default page size
allows greater than 390 bytes for the width of indexed columns. 
GBase SE supports 8 columns and a width of 126 bytes. 
Other GBase servers allow 16 columns and 255 bytes.
The limit depends on the database server in use, but all servers support 
a total of at least 120 bytes. 

For additional information, see the CREATE TABLE statement in
the GBase Guide to SQL: Syntax.


-551	The constraint contains too many columns.

The total number of columns listed in a UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, or FOREIGN
KEY clause is limited. The limit depends on the database server in use,
but all database servers support eight columns. The limit is the same as
the restriction on the number of columns in a composite index. For
additional information, refer to the CREATE INDEX statement in the
GBase Guide to SQL: Syntax.


-552	Blob host variables are disallowed in multi-statement prepares.

This EXECUTE statement executes a prepared list of multiple statements.
One or more of the host variables supplied for the ? placeholders in
the list is a locator structure for a TEXT or BYTE value. This action
is not allowed. Statements that refer to TEXT or BYTE variables may be
prepared and executed, but they must be single statements, not part of
a multistatement list.


-553	Mkdbsdir not found in $GBASEDBTDIR/bin. Consult your installation
instructions.

An executable program, mkdbsdir, is used to create the initial contents
of the database directory during a CREATE DATABASE statement. It is
distributed with the database server and should be found in the bin
subdirectory of the directory that the GBASEDBTDIR environment variable
names, but it was not. Check the setting of GBASEDBTDIR, and then
consult with the person who installed the software.


-554	Syntax disallowed in this database server.

The database server that you are using does not support this statement
or some clause in it. When a program starts, the database server in use
is chosen based on the SQLEXEC environment variable (for database
servers prior to Version 6.0). Several small differences in statement
syntax exist between GBase SE and other GBase database servers.
For example, GBase SE supports the IN 'pathname' clause of the
CREATE TABLE statement while other GBase database servers support
the IN dbspace clause instead.


-555	Cannot use a select or any of the database statements in a
multi-query prepare.

The statement text that is presented with this PREPARE statement has
multiple statements divided by semicolons, and one is a SELECT,
DATABASE, CREATE DATABASE, or CLOSE DATABASE statement. These
statements must always be prepared as one-statement texts. Check the
statement text string, and make sure that you intended multiple
statements. If you did, revise the program to execute these four
statement types alone.


-556	Cannot create, drop, or modify an object that is external to current database.

This statement attempts to create, drop, or alter an object in an
external database, one other than the current database. You can only
read the contents of an external database.

If you make the external database your current database, you can
modify the contents. Review all uses of names beginning with <dbname>,
which refers to an object in the external database <dbname>.


-557	Cannot locate table that is external to the current database
after <level-count> levels of synonym mapping.

One of the tables named in this query was in fact a synonym, and it
pointed outside the current database. It named another synonym that
pointed outside its database, and so on for <level-count> synonyms
with no real table being found. The database server has given up on
the query in case an endless chain of synonyms exists.

To review the synonyms in the current database that refer to external
databases, query systables and syssyntable as follows:

SELECT T.tabname synonym, servername, dbname, user, S.tabname
   FROM systables T, syssyntable S
      WHERE T.tabtype = 'S' AND T.tabid = S.tabid AND S.btabid IS NULL

To follow a chain of synonyms through external databases, use a similar
query in the external database and substitute for servername, dbname,
and tabname the values that the preceding query returns each time.

SELECT T.tabname synonym, servername, dbname, user, S.tabname
        FROM dbname@servername:systables T, dbname@servername:syssyntable S
           WHERE T.tabtype = 'S' AND T.tabname = 'tabname'
              AND T.tabid = S.tabid

When this query returns no row, the requested tabname is not defined as
a synonym in that database (it is a table, a view, or not defined).


-558	Changrp not found in $GBASEDBTDIR/bin. Consult your installation
instructions.

This command requires the presence of an executable program named
changrp, which is normally installed as part of the database server. It
should be in the bin subdirectory of the directory that GBASEDBTDIR
environment variable names. Check the value in that variable, and then
consult with the person who installed the software.


-559	Cannot create a synonym on top of another synonym.

This CREATE SYNONYM statement names another synonym. Making a chain of
synonyms is not supported. See the discussion of error -218 for a way
to list the names of all synonyms. To have a second synonym with the
same meaning as the first, find out the meaning of the other synonym.
Then make a new synonym to refer to the same base table. To see the
base table for a given synonym, query systables and syssyntable as
follows, substituting the name of the synonym:

SELECT T.tabname synonym, S.* FROM systables T, syssyntable S
        WHERE T.tabname = name AND T.tabid = S.tabid

If btabid is defined in the resulting display, the synonym refers to a
table in that current database with that tabid; otherwise, it refers to
an external database.


-560	Synonym with tabid number not found in systables.

Either the systables or syssyntable system catalog, or an index on one
of these, has been corrupted. Run the bcheck or secheck utility. Be
prepared to drop and re-create all synonyms.


-561	Sums and averages cannot be computed on datetime values.

This statement applies an aggregate function such as SUM to a column
that has the type DATETIME. The function is not defined on this data
type since arithmetic is not. Review the use of aggregate functions.
You will have to revise the query.


-562	Database conversion failed.

You are running a new version of the database server, and you just
opened a database for the first time with this level of the software.
The database server tried to upgrade the database automatically,
probably by defining an additional system-catalog table. An unexpected
error occurred. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. If the error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.

Database servers after Version 5.01 do not use this error message.


-563	Cannot acquire exclusive lock for database conversion.

You are running a new version of the database server, and you have just
opened a database for the first time with this level of the software.
The database server has tried to upgrade the database automatically,
probably by defining an additional system catalog table. However, it
needs to lock the database for exclusive use to do this conversion, and
some other user has the database open. Wait a short time, and try this
statement again. At that time, the database might be free (or another
user's action might have updated it).


-564	Cannot sort rows.

This internal error reflects an unexpected condition during a sort.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-565	Cannot read sorted rows.

This internal error reflects an unexpected condition during a sort.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. If the
error recurs note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-566	Cannot initiate sort.

This internal error reflects an unexpected condition during a sort.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-567	Cannot write sorted rows.

This internal error reflects an unexpected condition during a sort.
Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information. If the
error recurs, note all circumstances and contact
GBase Technical Support.


-568	Cannot reference an external database without logging.

This statement refers to a database other than the current database.
However, the current database uses transaction logging, and the
external one does not. This action is not supported; the databases
that are used in a single transaction must all use logging or all not
use it.


-569	Cannot reference an external database with logging.

This statement refers to a database other than the current database.
However, the current database does not use transaction logging, and the
external one does. This action is not supported; the databases that are
used in a single transaction must all use logging or all not use it.


-570	Cannot reference an external ANSI database.

This statement refers to a database other than the current database.
However, the current database is not ANSI compliant, and the external
one is. This action is not supported; the databases that are used in a
single transaction must all be ANSI compliant, or all must not be.


-571	Cannot reference an external non-ANSI database.

This statement refers to a database other than the current database.
However, the current database is ANSI compliant, and the external one
is not. This action is not supported; the databases used in a single
transaction must all be ANSI compliant, or all must not be.


-572	The specified wait duration is too long.

The maximum time that you can specify as the WAIT time in SET LOCK MODE
is 32,767 seconds. Review this statement, and make sure it specifies
the duration in seconds that you intended. If so, either use a shorter
duration, or (since 32,767 seconds is more than 9 hours) simply omit
the duration to specify an indefinite wait.


-573	Cannot set log to buffered in a mode ANSI database.

This statement tries to apply BUFFERED LOG mode, but the database is
ANSI compliant; that is, it was created with the clause MODE ANSI. One
aspect of ANSI compliance is that all transactions are logged
immediately during the execution of the COMMIT WORK statement. The use
of a buffered log entails a deferred write of log records. It improves
performance at some slight risk of failing to log a transaction. Such a
risk is not allowed under the standard; an ANSI-compliant database must
use unbuffered logging.


-574	A subquery has returned not exactly one column.

This statement contains a subquery (a SELECT statement within parentheses)
to represent a single value (on one side of a relational operator such as
equals). Such a subquery must return exactly one row and one column;
otherwise, it is unclear which value the subquery represents. This
subquery has returned more than one value. This error can occur if you
specify the ITEM keyword in a collection subquery with more than one element
in the projection list.

Review all subqueries to make sure that they can return at most one column
(by listing only one expression after SELECT) and at most one row (by
testing a unique key in the WHERE clause). For a collection subquery, either
drop the ITEM keyword or make sure that the projection list contains only one
element.


-575	LENGTH() requires string type values.

This statement contains a use of LENGTH that is applied to a column or
an expression that is not a character type (not CHAR or VARCHAR). This
action is not supported. Review the uses of LENGTH, and make sure they
apply only to character values.


-576	Cannot specify CONSTRAINT name for TEMP table.

You cannot specify a constraint (either UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, or CHECK)
name for constraints placed on temporary tables. This action is not
supported for a temporary table. However, you can specify that a column
receives one of these constraints, and you can specify a list of
columns as having a constraint, but you may not use the CONSTRAINT
constraint-name clause. Temporary tables and their indexes are not
recorded in the usual system catalog tables.


-577	A constraint of the same type already exists on the column set.

You have placed a constraint (either UNIQUE, PRIMARY KEY, FOREIGN KEY,
or CHECK) on a set of columns, but a constraint of the same type on
those columns already exists. In the case of a FOREIGN KEY, this error
only occurs if the same foreign-key set of columns references the same
existing parent key set of columns. Either the constraint was
established when the table was created, or it was added later. Because
the constraint already exists, it is not added again.


-578	Owner name is too long.

This statement contains an owner name that qualifies the name of a table, 
view, index or synonym, and the owner name is longer than the maximum 
of 32 characters (for example, overly_long1234567890123456789012.tablename). 
Review the punctuation and spelling of all identifiers. Possibly an omitted
space or comma causes two names to run together. To check the names of
all known owners, select the owner column of the relevant system
catalog: systables, sysindexes, or syssynonyms.


-579	Not owner of synonym.

You do not own the synonym that is specified in this DROP SYNONYM
statement. To drop an object you do not own, you must have Database
Administrator privilege.


-580	Cannot revoke permission.

This REVOKE statement cannot be carried out. Either it revokes a
database-level privilege, but you are not a Database Administrator in
this database, or it revokes a table-level privilege that your account
name did not grant. Review the privilege and the user names in the
statement to ensure that they are correct. To summarize the table-level
privileges you have granted, query systabauth as follows:

SELECT A.grantee, T.tabname FROM systabauth A, systables T
        WHERE A.grantor = USER AND A.tabid = T.tabid


-581	Error loading message file.

This SET EXPLAIN statement could not be completed because the database
server was unable to find the file of message templates it uses when it
prepares explanatory output. Consult with the person who installed the
GBase software.


-582	Database does not have logging.

This ROLLFORWARD statement could not be executed because this database
does not have a transaction log. The rollforward operation uses the
transaction log as its input. Since no transactions have been logged,
the database cannot be rolled forward.


-583	View permissions no longer valid -- permissions on remote objects
revoked.

This statement queries a view that is based on tables in external
databases (databases other than the current database). However, in one
or more of those external databases, your account does not have the
necessary table-level privilege on a table that the view uses, or
possibly your CONNECT privilege for an external database has been
revoked. For a way to display the definition of a view, see the
discussion of error -385. In the view definition, look for table names
that are qualified with database names and possibly site names.


-584	Cannot rename system catalog.

This RENAME TABLE statement cannot be carried out because it would
rename one of the tables that make up the system catalog. The names of
these tables cannot be changed; the database server uses them.


-585	Cannot rename column in system catalog.

This RENAME COLUMN statement cannot be carried out because it would
rename a column of one of the tables that make up the system catalog.
The database server relies on these column names for internal queries,
and you cannot change them.


-586	Cursor is already open.

This database is operating in ANSI compliance (it was created or
started MODE ANSI). By the rules of ANSI SQL, a cursor must always be
closed before it can be reopened. Review the logic of the program.
Possibly it was originally written to take advantage of one of the
GBase extensions to SQL: if a cursor is reopened, it is
automatically closed and opened. In the current database, that action
is not allowed.


-587	Cannot delete file filename.

Version 4.0 and later do not use this message. For previous versions,
check the accompanying ISAM error code for more information.


-588	Invalid host variable number.

Database servers starting with Version 4.1 detect this internal error.
If the error recurs, pleasnote all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.


-589	Cannot update multiple sites within a single transaction.

This database server supports only single-site update. The operations
within one transaction can modify data at only one site in the network.
Some preceding statement within this transaction has already modified
data at one site; the current statement would modify data at a second
site. The statement is not executed. Roll back the current transaction.
Examine the application in the light of this restriction. Check the
names of all tables that UPDATE, INSERT, and DELETE statements affect
to make sure they are all in the same database or in databases that the
same database server holds. (Check the definition of any synonyms.
Synonyms can make tables in external databases appear to be in the
current database.)

Database servers after Version 5.01 do not use this error message.


-590	Routine cache corrupted.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-590	Procedure cache corrupted.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-591	Invalid default value for column/variable <column-name>/
<variable-name>.

The specified default value is the wrong type or is too long for a column
or an SPL-routine variable.

To specify a valid default value for a column, use the DEFAULT clause in a
CREATE TABLE statement. To specify a valid default value for a variable in an
SPL routine, use the DEFAULT clause in a DEFINE statement.


-592	Cannot specify column to be not null when the default value is null.

This CREATE or ALTER TABLE statement specifies that a column may not
contain nulls (the NOT NULL clause), but it also has a DEFAULT clause
giving the default value for new rows as NULL. This contradiction is
not allowed.


-593	Cannot specify default value for SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL column.

This CREATE or ALTER TABLE statement specifies that a column has a
SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL data type, but it also has a DEFAULT 
clause for the column. The database server generates values for a 
SERIAL or SERIAL8 or BIGSERIAL column each time a row is created, 
so the DEFAULT clause is meaningless.


-594	Cannot specify non-null default value for TEXT or BYTE column.

This CREATE or ALTER TABLE statement specifies that a column has a data
type of BYTE or TEXT. It also has a DEFAULT clause for the column that
specifies something other than NULL. You can only designate the default
value NULL for columns of TEXT or BYTE data type.


-595	Incorrect use of an aggregate function.

An aggregate function was incorrectly used inside an SPL
routine expression, as an argument to an iterator table function,
or inside a check constraint. These types of expressions cannot 
process aggregate functions.

The following examples show the incorrect use of an aggregate function:

LET var = MAX(another_var) + 10; -- error

SELECT 1 FROM TABLE(FUNCTION(udr1(max(1))));  -- error

An SPL routine expression, or the expression in a check constraint,
can refer to only a single value, so the use of an aggregate function
is meaningless.


-596	Bad EXIT/CONTINUE statement. Not within a statement-name loop.

The SPL routine EXIT and CONTINUE statements must be placed within
a FOREACH, WHILE, or FOR loop.


-597	[Internal] Premature End Of Buffer.

If this internal error recurs, note all circumstances and
contact GBase Technical Support.


-598	Bad cursor name cursor-name.

Inside an SPL routine, a nonexistent cursor name was specified in
an UPDATE/DELETE...WHERE CURRENT OF statement.

FOREACH cur1 
        FOR SELECT col INTO var FROM tab UPDATE tab 
        SET col = proc(var) 
        WHERE CURRENT OF bad_cur_name; -- error 
END FOREACH


-599	Cannot mix GBase Database Server syntax with 
        GBase SE syntax.

Syntax specific to GBase Database Server and to the GBase SE
database server was mixed in the same statement. Use the appropriate syntax
for your database server.

-600	Cannot create TEXT or BYTE value.

This statement creates a new BYTE or TEXT value, but some unexpected
error prevented the creation of that value. Roll back the current
transaction. Check the accompanying ISAM error code for more
information. Possibly the storage space or tblspace has filled up, or
you are not referring to a valid storage space. If the error recurs,
note all circumstances and contact GBase Technical Support.